+++
title = "Robert Frank on inequality in America"
date = 2008-01-21T22:02:00Z
updated = 2008-01-21T22:29:34Z
tags = ["Robert Frank", "liberalism", "politics", "economics", "Robert Reich"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I've recently started exploring the ideas of liberal economists - those economists who advise and formulate policy for Democratic candidates.  I've downloaded a few fantastic lectures by <a href="http://robertreich.blogspot.com/">Robert Reich</a>, Secretary of Labor under President Clinton.  And I recently read a book on inequality by <a href="http://www.robert-h-frank.com/">Robert Frank</a>, professor of economics at Cornell.  The book - <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Falling-Behind-Rising-Inequality-Wildavsky/dp/0520252527/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1200970979&amp;sr=8-1">Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class</a></em> - is one of the most interesting policy essays I've read in a long time.  I highly recommend it.<br /><br />His basic argument is this: since 1979, the trend in America has been for an enormous increase in the incomes of those in the top 1%-5% of earners and a much, much smaller increase in the incomes of everyone else.  Flush with cash, the top earners have been spending wildly on "positional goods" - goods that display status and wealth, that demonstrate that one is a "player," someone to be reckoned with.  Meanwhile, the near-rich emulate the spending patterns of the rich, and so on down the income ladder.  This is the "expenditure cascade."<br /><br />The problem is that the farther down the income ladder one goes, the less capable individuals are of affording to participate in these "positional arms races," as Frank calls them.  Individuals in the middle are forced to keep up by spending large portions of their income on positional goods - which include things like housing and education - while increasingly neglecting unseen, nonpositional goods like saving money and buying insurance. <br /><br />The primary motive for status-spending isn't envy, he argues; rather, middle-class families feel forced to spend heavily on positional goods in order to feel accepted and be recognized as successful.  People take out jumbo mortgages to buy oversized houses they can't afford not because they necessarily believe that more house leads to more happiness, but because they want to send their children to the best schools and have them grow up in "safe" neighborhoods - the sort of neighborhoods where housing prices are often beyond their ability to comfortably pay.<br /><br />Frank cites research showing that higher income inequality is associated with lower societal happiness, more health problems, and higher rates of crime, homicide, suicide, and depression.  He lambasts the Bush tax cuts, which disproportionately rewarded individuals at the top of the income scale, and argues for making income taxes more progressive or switching to a progressive consumption tax.  This would involve making savings tax-exempt: taxable income in a given year would equal a family's earnings minus its savings.<br /><br />"Do we want to spend our money on better teachers, better roads, and enhanced national security?  Or do we want to spend it on more expensive watches, more elaborate gas grills, and bigger mansions?  Tired slogans about government waste won't help us make this decision more intelligently."<br /><br /><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Falling-Behind-Rising-Inequality-Wildavsky/dp/0520252527/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1200970979&amp;sr=8-1">Click here</a> to check out the book on Amazon.com.
