+++
title = "More incredible lines from Czeslaw Milosz"
date = 2007-05-13T16:09:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:01:35Z
tags = ["literature", "poetry"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;">From  </span></span><span style="font-weight: bold;">In Milan</span><br /><br />I could compose, right now, a song<br />On the taste of peaches, on September in Europe.<br />No one can accuse me of being without joy<br />Or of not noticing girls who pass by.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">A Treatise on Poetry</span><br /><br />When they put a rope around my neck,<br />When they choke off my breath with a rope,<br />I'll turn around once, and what will I be?<br /><br />When they give me an injection of phenol,<br />When I walk half a step with phenol in my veins,<br />What wisdom of the prophets will enlighten me?<br /><br />When they tear us from this one embrace,<br />When they destroy forever the shaft of tender light,<br />What heaven will see us reunited?<span style="font-weight: bold;"><span style="font-weight: bold;"></span><br /></span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span></span><span style="font-weight: bold;">Ode</span><br /><br />There is no doubt that many perished, infamously,<br />Because, like an illiterate discovering chemistry,<br />They suddenly discovered relativity and time.<br />...<br />For contemplation fades without resistance.<br />For its own sake, it should be forbidden.<br />And we, certainly, were happier than those<br />Who drank sadness from the books of Schopenhauer,<br />While they listened from their garrets to the din<br />Of music from the tavern down below.<br />...<br />If we, though our thoughts were merely historical,<br />Will not receive the laurel of long fame,<br />So what, after all?  Some are given monuments<br />And mausoleums, yet in a soft May rain,<br />Covered by a single overcoat, a boy and girl<br />Rush by, entirely indifferent to that perfection.<br />And some word of us may remain in any case,<br />Some remembrance of our half-opened lips:<br />They did not have time to say what they wanted.<br />...<br />Nothing but ocean which boils and repeats:<br />In vain, in vain.  Nothingness is so strong<br />We try to master it by thinking of the bones<br />Of pirates, the silky eyebrows of governors<br />On which the crabs feast.  And our hands grip<br />Harder at the cool metal of the railing.<br />Look for help in the smell of paint and soap.<br />The ship's body, creaking, carries the freight<br />Of our foolishness, vagueness, and hidden faith,<br />The dirt of our subjectivity, and the homeless<br />White faces of the ones who were killed in combat.<span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;"></span><br /><br />From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">Bobo's Metamorphosis</span><br /><br />I liked him as he did not look for an ideal object.<br />When he heard: "Only the object which does not exist<br />Is perfect and pure," he blushed and turned away.<br /><br />In every pocket he carried pencils, pads of paper<br />Together with crumbs of bread, the accidents of life.<br />...<br />They reproached him with marrying one woman and living with another.<br />Have no time - he answered - for nonsense, a divorce and so on.<br />A man gets up, a few strokes of a brush and then already it's evening.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">(<a href="http://www.amazon.com/New-Collected-Poems-Czeslaw-Milosz/dp/0060514485/ref=sr_1_3/103-4517364-8045423?ie=UTF8&s=books&amp;qid=1179087986&sr=8-3">Click here</a> <span style="font-style: italic;">to see Milosz's Collected Poems on Amazon.com - I give it the highest recommendation.)</span></span>
