+++
title = "Great lines from recent reading"
date = 2008-02-25T00:30:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:06:20Z
tags = ["academia", "art", "literature", "love", "poetry", "religion", "writing"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

It is impossible to think - seriously - with words like Classicism, Romanticism, Humanism, Realism. ...One does not get drunk nor does one quench one's thirst with bottle labels.<br /><br />-Paul Valery, quoted in C. Milosz, <em>The History of Polish Poetry</em><br /><br />Beauty is momentary in the mind -<br />The fitful tracing of a portal;<br />But in the flesh it is immortal.<br /><br />Wallace Stevens<br />--"Peter Quince at the Clavier"<br /><br />At no moment during my work did I feel boredom; indeed, I was playing more than toiling, and several passages preserve, I hope, a trace of my smile.<br /><br />Czeslaw Milosz<br />--<em>The History of Polish Poetry</em><br /><br />Why should she give her bounty to the dead?<br />What is divinity if it can come<br />Only in silent shadows and in dreams?<br />Shall she not find in comforts of the sun,<br />In pungent fruit and bright, green wings, or else<br />In any balm or beauty of the earth,<br />Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven?<br />...<br />And, in the isolation of the sky,<br />At evening, casual flocks of pigeons make<br />Ambiguous undulations as they sink,<br />Downward to darkness, on extended wings.<br /><br />Wallace Stevens<br />--"Sunday Morning"<br /><br />I got away with half my heart - no more.<br />Barely a trace of my old gaiety.<br />The crowd like market cattle bore<br />Me along. The world was loathsome to me.<br /><br />Cyprian Norwid<br />--"Nerves"<br /><br />With nothing can one approach a work of art so little as with critical words: they always come down to more or less happy misunderstandings.<br />...<br />This above all - ask yourself in the stillest hour of the night: <em>must</em> I write? Delve into yourself for a deep answer. And if this should be affirmative, if you may meet this question with a strong and simple "<em>I must</em>," then build your life according to this necessity; your life even into its most indifferent and slightest hour must be a sign of this urge and a testimony to it.<br />...<br />Therefore save yourself from these general themes and seek those which your own everyday life offers you; describe your sorrows and desires, passing thoughts and the belief in some sort of beauty - describe all these with loving, quiet, humble sincerity, and use, to express yourself, the things in your environment, the images from your dreams, and the objects of your memory. If your daily life seems poor, do not blame it; blame yourself, tell yourself that you are not poet enough to call forth its riches; for to the creator there is no poverty and no poor indifferent place. <br />...<br />A work of art is good if it has sprung from necessity.<br />...<br />Live a while in these books, learn from them what seems to you worth learning, but above all love them. This love will be repaid you a thousand and a thousand times, and however your life may turn, - it will, I am certain of it, run through the fabric of your growth as one of the most important threads among all the threads of your experiences, disappointments and joys.<br /><br />Rainer Maria Rilke<br />--<em>Letters to a Young Poet</em>
