+++
title = "Quotes from Hamsun, Krakauer, and Campbell"
date = 2007-12-24T22:46:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:40:34Z
tags = ["nature", "literature", "love", "psychology", "mythology", "Joseph Campbell", "Presidential race", "religion", "solitude"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

He wanders eastward, toward the sun, he comes to a mountain.  A voice calls: are you near a mountain?  Yes, he answers, I'm standing near a mountain.  Then the voice says: That mountain you are standing near is my foot; I am lying bound in the uttermost part of the earth, come set me free!<br /><br />...<br /><br />Later, when he came to think about it, he acknowledged that those hours had had a significance for him that no one could realize, and if it was true - as had just been said - that at times his writing <span style="font-style: italic;">sparkled</span>, then it was his memories of that time that had kindled the spark; it was a reflection of the happiness his two playmates had bestowed on him in his childhood.  For that reason they could claim a large share in his achievements.<br /><br />...<br /><br />But his days varied, the good alternating with the bad, and sometimes he would be working at his best when a thought, a pair of eyes, a word from the past would strike him, quenching his inspiration.  Then he would get up and begin to pace his room from wall to wall; he had done this so often, he had worn a white path across the floor, and the path grew daily whiter....<br /><br />Knut Hamsun<br />--<span style="font-style: italic;">Victoria</span><br /><br />And so it turned out that only a life similar to the life of those around us, merging with it without a ripple, is genuine life, and that an unshared happiness is not happiness.<br /><br />Boris Pasternak<br />--<span style="font-style: italic;">Doctor Zhivago</span> (quoted in Krakauer, <span style="font-style: italic;">Into the Wild</span>)<br /><br />Because I was alone, however, even the mundane seemed charged with meaning.  The ice looked colder and more mysterious, the sky a cleaner shade of blue.<br /><br />...<br /><br />It is easy, when you are young, to believe that what you desire is no less than what you deserve, to assume that if you want something badly enough, it is your God-given right to have it.<br /><br />Jon Krakauer<br />--<span style="font-style: italic;">Into the Wild</span><br /><br />The universal triumph of the secular state has thrown all religious organizations into such a definitely secondary, and finally ineffectual, position that religious pantomime is hardly more today than a sanctimonious exercise for Sunday morning, whereas business ethics and patriotism stand for the remainder of the week.  Such a monkey-holiness is not what the functioning world requires....<br /><br />...<br /><br />A single song is being inflected through all the colorations of the human choir.  General propaganda for one or another of the local solutions is superfluous - or much rather, a menace.  The way to become human is to learn to recognize the lineaments of God in all of the wonderful modulations of the face of man.<br /><br />Joseph Campbell<br />--<span style="font-style: italic;">The Hero With a Thousand Faces</span>
