+++
title = "Poems, quotes, and fragments from the weekend reading"
date = 2007-04-22T23:58:00Z
updated = 2007-04-23T01:03:07Z
tags = ["Korea", "peter singer", "literature", "walt whitman", "globalization", "poetry"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<em>From </em><strong>To think of time</strong><br /><em>Walt Whitman</em><br /><br />To think how eager we are in building our houses,<br />To think others shall be just as eager and we quite indifferent.<br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>Whoever you are holding me now in hand</strong><br /><em>Walt Whitman</em><br /><br />Carry me when you go forth over land or sea;<br />For thus merely touching you is enough, is best,<br />And thus touching you would I silently sleep and be carried eternally.<br /><br />Quotes from <strong>Peter Singer</strong>, <em>One World: The Ethics of Globalization</em>:<br /><br />“The value of the life of an innocent human being does not vary according to nationality.”<br /><br />"Democracy, in the sense of the rule of the majority, does not provide a guarantee that human rights will be respected.  But a democratic process requires that the policies of the government be publicly defended and justified.  They cannot simply be implemented from above… if genocide has to be defended on primetime television, it will become rare indeed.”<br /><br />“Economics raises questions of value, and economists tend to be too focused on markets to give sufficient importance to values that are not dealt with well by the market.”<br /><em></em><br /><em>Two Korean poems written under Japanese colonial occupation:</em><br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>Does spring come to stolen fields?</strong><br /><em>Yi Sanghwa</em><br /><br />This land is no longer our own.<br />Does spring come just the same<br />to the stolen fields?<br /><br /><strong>When that day comes</strong><br /><em>Sim Hun</em><br /><br />When that day comes<br />Mount Samgak will rise and dance,<br />the waters of Han will rise up.<br /><br />If that day comes before I perish,<br />I will soar like a crow at night<br />and pound the Chongno bell with my head.<br />The bones of my skull<br />will scatter, but I shall die in joy.<br /><br />When that day comes at last<br />I'll roll and leap and shout on the boulevard<br />and if joy still stifles within my breast<br />I'll take a knife<br /><br />and skin my body and make<br />a magical drum and march with it<br />in the vanguard.  O procession!<br />Let me once hear that thundering shout,<br />my eyes can close then.<br /><br /><em>Translated by Peter H. Lee</em> in <em>Modern Korean Literature: An Anthology</em>
