+++
title = "Quotes from Paul Tillich and a poem by Mark Strand"
date = 2007-10-25T23:23:00Z
updated = 2007-10-25T23:34:52Z
tags = ["literature", "education", "poetry", "Mark Strand", "university of chicago", "Paul Tillich"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

And, certainly, the way to maturity in thinking is a difficult path.  Much must be left behind: early dreams, poetic imaginations, cherished legends, favored doctrines, accustomed laws and ritual traditions.  Some of them must be restored on a deeper level, some must be given up.  Despite this price, maturity can be gained - a manly, self-critical, convincing faith, not produced by reasoning, but reasonable, and at the same time rooted in the message of the divine foolishness, the ultimate source of wisdom.<br /><br />...<br /><br />From century to century it has become more and more evident that knowledge without wisdom produces external and internal self-destruction.<br /><br />...<br /><br />He who has encountered the mystery of life has reached the source of wisdom.  In encountering it with awe and longing, he experiences the infinite distance of his being from that which is the ground of his being.  He experiences the limits of his being, his finitude in face of the infinite.  He learns that acceptance of one's limits is the decisive step towards wisdom.  The fool rebels against the limits set by his finitude.  He wants to be unlimited in power and knowledge.  He who is wise accepts his finitude.  He knows that he is not God.<br /><br />Paul Tillich<br /><em>  --The Eternal Now</em><br /><br /><strong>The Man in Black</strong><br /><br />I was walking downtown<br />when I noticed a man in black,<br />black cape and black boots, coming toward me.<br /><br />His arms out in front of him,<br />his fingers twinkling with little rings,<br />he looked like a summer night full of stars.<br /><br />It was summer.  The night was full of stars.<br />the tall buildings formed a hallway down which I walked.<br />The man in black came toward me.<br /><br />The waxed tips of his mustache shone<br />like tiny spears and his teeth glistened.<br />I offered him my hand which he did not take.<br /><br />I felt like a fool and stood in his black wake,<br />shaken and small, and my tears<br />swung back and forth in the sultry air like chandeliers.<br /><br />--Mark Strand
