+++
title = "Quotes from Mearsheimer's 'The Tragedy of Great Power Politics'"
date = 2007-10-07T21:39:00Z
updated = 2007-10-07T22:00:09Z
tags = ["Mearsheimer", "history", "international relations", "realism", "university of chicago"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

In international politics, God helps those who help themselves.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Because Americans dislike realpolitik, public discourse about foreign policy in the United States is usually couched in the language of liberalism.  Hence the pronouncements of the policy elites are heavily flavored with optimism and moralism.  ...Behind closed doors, however, the elites who make national security policy speak mostly the language of power, not that of principle, and the United States acts in the international system according to the dictates of realist logic.  In essence, a discernible gap separates public rhetoric from the actual conduct of American foreign policy.<br /><br />...<br /><br />For better or worse, states are rarely willing to expend blood and treasure to protect foreign populations from gross abuses, including genocide.  For instance, despite claims that American foreign policy is filled with moralism, Somalia (1992-93) is the only instance during the past one hundred years in which U.S. soldiers were killed in action on a humanitarian mission.  And in that case, the loss of a mere eighteen soldiers in an infamous firefight in October 1993 so traumatized American policymakers that they immediately pulled all U.S. troops out of Somalia and then refused to intervene in Rwanda in the spring of 1994, when ethnic Hutu went on a genocidal rampage against their Tutsi neighbors.  Stopping that genocide would have been relatively easy and it would have had virtually no effect on the position of the United States in the balance of power.  Yet nothing was done.<br /><br />...<br /><br />But sometimes the pursuit of non-security goals conflicts with balance-of-power logic, in which case states usually act according to the dictates of realism.  For example, despite the U.S. commitment to spreading democracy across the globe, it helped overthrow democratically elected governments and embraced a number of authoritarian regimes during the Cold War, when American policymakers felt that these actions would help contain the Soviet Union.<br /><br />...<br /><br />It is difficult to imagine a modern political leader openly asking the public to fight and die to improve the balance of power.  No European or American leader did so during their world war or the Cold War.  Most people prefer to think of fights between their own state and rival states as clashes between good and evil, where they are on the side of the angels and their opponents are aligned with the devil.  Thus, leaders tend to portray war as a moral crusade or an ideological contest, rather than as a struggle for power.  Realism is a hard sell.<br /><br />--John J. Mearsheimer, <em>The Tragedy of Great Power Politics</em>
