+++
title = "Excerpts from Frost, Tillich, O'Hara, and Pound"
date = 2008-03-03T01:52:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:06:44Z
tags = ["literature", "love", "loneliness", "poetry", "philosophy", "Paul Tillich"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<strong><em>From</em> "Desert Places"<br /></strong><br />They cannot scare me with their empty spaces<br />Between stars - on stars where no human race is.<br />I have it in me so much nearer home<br />To scare myself with my own desert places.<br /><br />--Robert Frost<br /><br />One cannot remove anxiety by arguing it away.<br />...<br />The affirmation of one's essential being in spite of desires and anxieties creates joy.  Lucillus is exhorted by Seneca to make it his business "to learn how to feel joy."  It is not the joy of fulfilled desires to which he refers, for real joy is a "severe matter"; it is the happiness of a soul which is "lifted above every circumstance."  Joy accompanies the self-affirmation of our essential being in spite of the inhibitions coming from the accidental elements in us.  Joy is the emotional expression of the courageous Yes to one's own true being.<br /><br />Paul Tillich<br />--<em>The Courage to Be</em><br /><br /><strong>To the Harbormaster</strong><br /><br />I wanted to be sure to reach you<br />though my ship was on the way it got caught<br />in some moorings. I am always tying up<br />and then deciding to depart. In storms and<br />at sunset, with the metallic coils of the tide<br />around my fathomless arms, I am unable<br />to understand the forms of my vanity<br />or I am hard alee with my Polish rudder<br />in my hand and the sun sinking. To<br />you I offer my hull and the tattered cordage<br />of my will. The terrible channels where<br />the wind drives me against the brown lips<br />of the reeds are not all behind me. Yet<br />I trust the sanity of my vessel; and<br />if it sinks it may well be in answer<br />to the reasoning of the eternal voices,<br />the waves which have kept me from reaching you.<br /><br /><em>--Frank O'Hara</em><br /><br />The sceptical age hungers after the definite, after something it can pretend to believe.<br />...<br />You read, as a child who has listened to ghost stories goes into a dark room; it is no accurate information about historical things that you seek, it is the thrill which mere reality would never satisfy.<br />...<br />The history of literary criticism is largely the history of a vain struggle to find a terminology which will define something.<br />...<br />It is dawn at Jerusalem while midnight hovers above the Pillars of Hercules.  All ages are contemporaneous.  The Middle Ages are in Russia.  The future stirs already in the minds of the few.  This is especially true of literature, where the real time is independent of the apparent, and where many dead men are our grandchildren's contemporaries, while many of our contemporaries have been already gathered into Abraham's bosom, or some more fitting receptacle.<br />...<br />The history of an art is the history of masterwork, not of failures, or mediocrity.  The ominscient historian would display the masterpieces, their causes and their inter-relation.  The study of literature is hero-worship.<br />...<br />Good art never bores one.  By that I mean that it is the business of the artist to prevent ennui; in the literary art, to relieve, refresh, revive the mind of the reader - at reasonable intervals - with some form of ecstasy, by some splendor of thought, some presentation of sheer beauty, some lightning turn of phrase - laughter is no mean ecstasy.  Good art begins with an escape from dullness.<br /><br />Ezra Pound<br />--<em>The Spirit of Romance</em>
