+++
title = "Poems and fragments from Thomas Hardy"
date = 2007-06-13T22:47:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:46:19Z
tags = ["war", "literature", "Thomas Hardy", "poetry", "peace", "Hardy", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I'm working extremely hard and learning a lot by day, and running, reading, and spending time with my friends in the evening - it's a great program, and I have a lot to be grateful for.  Lately I've been reading the poems of Thomas Hardy, and he has become one of my favorites.  Here are a few of the poems and lines that I've especially liked so far:<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">The Self-Unseeing</span><br /><br />Childlike, I danced in a dream;<br />Blessings emblazoned that day;<br />Everything glowed with a gleam;<br />Yet we were looking away!<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">The Man He Killed</span><br /><br />"Had he and I but met<br />By some old ancient inn,<br />We should have set us down to wet<br />Right many a nipperkin!<br /><br />"But ranged as infantry,<br />And staring face to face,<br />I shot at him as he at me,<br />And killed him in his place.<br /><br />"I shot him dead because-<br />Because he was my foe,<br />Just so: my foe of course he was;<br />That's clear enough; although<br /><br />"He thought he'd 'list, perhaps,<br />Off-hand like--just as I;<br />Was out of work, had sold his traps-<br />No other reason why.<br /><br />"Yes; quaint and curious war is!<br />You shoot a fellow down<br />You'd treat if met where any bar is,<br />Or help to half-a-crown."<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">She, to Him II</span><br /><br />Perhaps, long hence, when I have passed away,<br />Some other's feature, accent, thought like mine,<br />Will carry you back to what I used to say,<br />And bring some memory of your love's decline.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;"></span><span style="font-weight: bold;"></span><a href="http://www.fiu.edu/%7Epbk/Texts/hardy.html">To An Unborn Pauper Child</a> (link)<br /><a href="http://www.business.uiuc.edu/vock/poetry/darkling.html">The Darkling Thrush</a> (link)<br /><a href="http://depts.drew.edu/jhc/hardy.html">The Respectable Burgher (on "the Higher Criticism")</a> (link)<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">At a Hasty Wedding</span><br /><br />If hours be years the twain are blest,<br />For now they solace sweet desire<br />By bonds of every bond the best,<br />If hours be years.  The twain are blest<br />Do eastern stars slope never west,<br />Nor pallid ashes follow fire:<br />If hours be years the twain are blest,<br />For now they solace swift desire.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">After the Last Breath</span><br /><br />Blankly we gaze.  We are free to go or stay;<br />Our morrow's anxious plans have missed their aim;<br />Whether we leave to-night or wait till day<br />   Counts as the same.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">One Ralph Blossom Soliloquizes</span><br /><br />These trumpets here in Heaven are dumb to me<br />With you away.  Dear, come, O come to me!
