+++
title = "Quotes from Petterson, 'Out Stealing Horses'"
date = 2007-12-11T01:11:00Z
updated = 2007-12-11T01:15:17Z
tags = ["home", "literature", "dogs", "Per Petterson", "loneliness", "family", "Norway", "television", "solitude"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I don’t switch on the ceiling light at once but leave the room in twilight so the yellow flames in the stove flicker brightly over the floor and walls. The sight of them slows my breathing down and makes me calm as it must have done for men through thousands of years: let the wolves howl, here by the fire it’s safe.<br /><br />…<br /><br />But each time he came home he had changed a little, and I had to concentrate hard to hold on to him.<br /><br />…<br /><br />My father looked almost happy then, and I could see by the way he looked at me that I did, too.<br /><br />…<br /><br />And she waves briefly and slams the car door and it starts to roll down the slope. I go up the steps and turn off the yard light and walk through the hall to the kitchen. Lyra is at my heels, but even when she is behind me the room feels a bit empty. I look out at the yard, but there is nothing but my own reflection in the dark glass.<br /><br />…<br /><br />He is watching the news. I don’t know when I last watched the news. I did not bring a television set out here with me, and I regret it sometimes when the evenings get long, but my idea was that living alone you can soon get stuck to those flickering images and to the chair you will sit on far into the night, and then time merely passes as you let others do the moving. I do not want that. I will keep myself company.<br /><br />…<br /><br />‘Would you rather I hadn’t come?’ she says again, insistently.<br />‘I don’t know,’ I say, and that is also true; I don’t know what to think of her coming out here, it was not part of my plan, and then it strikes me: now she will go away and never come back. That thought fills me with such sudden terror that I quickly say:<br />‘No, that’s not true. Don’t go.’<br /><br />…<br /><br />So I get up. Six fifteen. Lyra leaves her place beside the stove and goes to the kitchen door to wait. She turns her head and looks at me, and there is a trustfulness in that look I probably do not deserve. But maybe that is not the point, to deserve it or not, perhaps it just exists, that trust, disconnected from who you are and what you have done, and is not to be measured in any way. That’s a nice thought. Good dog, Lyra, I think, good dog.<br /><br />Per Petterson<br />--<em>Out Stealing Horses </em>(highly recommended; check it out <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Out-Stealing-Horses-Per-Petterson/dp/1555974708/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1197353675&amp;sr=8-1">here</a> on Amazon.com)
