+++
title = "Excerpts from the weekend's reading"
date = 2007-08-13T00:59:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:05:31Z
tags = ["frugality", "literature", "liberalism", "free trade", "globalization", "economics"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

The (National Assessment of Educational Progress economics exam), taken by a representative sample of twelfth graders at public and private high schools, tested students on micro- and macroeconomic principles and international trade. What, for example, is the effect of breaking down trade barriers between countries? A majority correctly said that goods would become less expensive. They chose this over "the quality of goods available would decrease." Maybe John Edwards should hire more teenagers for his Presidential campaign.<br /><br />--<em>The Wall Street Journal</em>, "The Kids Are All Right," 10-10-07<br /><br />Ms. Rodham skates earnestly on the surface of life, raising more questions than answers. “Last week I decided that even if life is absurd why couldn’t I spend it absurdly happy?” she wrote in November of her junior year.<br /><br />--<em>The New York Times, </em>"<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/29/us/politics/29letter.html?ex=1187150400&en=a261bdf200dc7c3e&amp;ei=5070">In the '60s, a Future Candidate Poured Her Heart Out in Letters</a>," 7-29-07 (must-read - the best article I've seen in this entire campaign cycle, and it made me a lot more enthusiastic about the Clinton campaign. I continue, however, to support Obama.)<br /><br />...<br /><br />Yes, Eleseus was sent to town after all; Inger managed that. ...Now and again he asked for money, something towards his expenses. A watch and chain, for instance, he must have, so as not to oversleep himself in the morning and be late at the office; money for a pipe and tobacco also, such as the other young clerks in the town always had. And for something he called pocket-money, and something he called evening classes, where he learned drawing and gymnastics and other matters proper to his rank and position. Altogether, it was no light matter to keep Eleseus going in a berth in town.<br /><br />"Pocket money?" said Isak. "Is that money to keep in your pocket, maybe?"<br /><br />--Knut Hamsun, <em>Growth of the Soil</em><br /><br />There was trouble in his mind, like enough, but he bore it silently, and made no scene. Oh, there was something great about Isak; as it might be Israel, promised and ever deceived, but still believing.<br /><br />--Knut Hamsun, <em>Growth of the Soil</em><br /><br />...<br /><br />Later in the year Inger was sent for down to the village, to do dressmaking for some of the great folks there.  Inger could not go; she had a household to look after, and animals besides, all the work of a home, and she had no servant.<br /><br />Had no what?  Servant!<br /><br />She spoke to Isak one day.  "If only I had someone to help me, I could put in more time sewing."<br /><br />Isak did not understand.  "Help?"<br /><br />"Yes, help in the house - a servant-girl."<br /><br />Isak must have been taken aback at this; he laughed a little in his iron beard, and took it as a jest.<br /><br />--Knut Hamsun, <em>Growth of the Soil</em>
