+++
title = "Excerpts from Emerson's 'Nature'"
date = 2007-06-16T20:39:00Z
updated = 2007-06-16T20:42:03Z
tags = ["nature", "literature", "Emerson", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

If the stars should appear one night in a thousand years, how would men believe and adore, and preserve for many generations the remembrance of the city of God which had been shown!  But every night come out these envoys of beauty, and light the universe with their admonishing smile.<br /><br />…<br /><br />Broad moon shall be my England of the senses and the understanding; the night shall be my Germany of mystic philosophy and dreams.<br /><br />…<br /><br />What is a farm but a mute gospel?<br /><br />…<br /><br />In a higher manner, the poet communicates the same pleasure.  By a few strokes, he delineates, as on air, the mountain, the camp, the city, the hero, the maiden, not different from what we know them, but only lifted from the ground and afloat before the eye.  He unfixes the land and the sea, makes them revolve around the axis of his primary thought, and disposes them anew.<br />…<br /><br />The aspect of nature is devout.  Like the figure of Jesus, she stands with bended head, and hands folded upon the breast.  The happiest man is he who learns from nature the lesson of worship.<br /><br />…<br /><br />From Shakespeare’s “Tempest,” excerpted in Emerson’s <span style="font-style: italic;">Nature</span>:<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">   The charm dissolves apace,</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">And, as the morning steals upon the night,</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">Melting the darkness, so their rising senses</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">Their clearer reason.</span><br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">   Their understanding</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">Begins to swell: and the approaching tide</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">Will shortly fill the reasonable shores</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">That now lie foul and muddy.</span><br /><br />…<br /><br />We are associated in adolescent and adult life with some friends who, like skies and waters, are coextensive with our idea; who, answering each to a certain affection of the soul, satisfy our desire on that side; whom we lack power to put at such focal distance from us, that we can mend or even analyze them.  We cannot choose but love them. <br /><br />…<br /><br />Therefore is nature ever the ally of Religion: lends all her pomp and riches to the religious sentiment.  Prophet and priest, David, Isaiah, Jesus, have drawn deeply from this source.  This ethical character so penetrates the bone and marrow of nature, as to seem the end for which it was made.<br /><br />…<br /><br />The poet, the orator, bred in the woods, whose senses have been nourished by their fair and appeasing changes, year after year, without design and without heed, shall not lose their lesson altogether, in the roar of cities or the broil of politics.<br /><br />…<br /><br />The tradesman, the attorney comes out of the din and craft of the street, and sees the sky and the woods, and is a man again.  In their eternal calm, he finds himself.  The health of the eye seems to demand a horizon.  We are never tired, so long as we can see far enough.<br /><br />…<br /><br />I see the spectacle of morning from the hill-top over against my house, from daybreak to sunrise, with emotions which an angel might share.  The long slender bars of cloud float like fishes in the sea of crimson light.  From the earth as a shore, I look out into that silent sea.<br /><br />…<br /><br />A man is fed, not that he may be fed, but that he may work.<br /><br />…<br /><br />The foregoing generations beheld God and nature face to face; we, through their eyes.  Why should not we also enjoy an original relation to the universe?  Why should not we have a poetry and philosophy of insight and not of tradition, and a religion by revelation to us, and not the history of theirs?<br /><br />…<br /><br />Miller owns this field, Locke that, and Manning the woodland beyond.  But none of them owns the landscape.  There is a property in the horizon which no man has but he whose eye can integrate all the parts, that is, the poet.  This is the best part of these men’s farms, yet to this their warranty-deeds give no title.<br /><br />…<br /><br />In the presence of nature, a wild delight runs through the man, in spite of real sorrows.  Nature says, he is my creature, and maugre all his impertinent griefs, he shall be glad with me.  Not the sun or the summer alone, but every hour and season yields its tribute of delight; for every hour and change corresponds to and authorizes a different state of the mind, from breathless noon to grimmest midnight.
