+++
title = "Excerpts from Hamsun, Friedman, & Lawrence"
date = 2007-08-08T19:13:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:05:31Z
tags = ["literature", "love", "poetry", "economics", "libertarianism"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

An hour later, my thoughts are full of joy. Even little things affect me: a veil flutters on a hat, a lock of hair comes undone, two eyes close with laughter - and I am moved. Oh, this day, this day!<br /><br />...<br /><br />When you came, there was sympathy in your face and your eyes shone, you gave me your hand. Now your eyes are indifferent again. Am I mistaken?<br /><br />...<br /><br />Here are you, burning out your life for the sake of a little schoolgirl, and your nights are full of desolate dreams. And a sultry wind enwraps your head, a stale and musty wind. Whilst the sky trembles with a marvellous blue, and the mountains are calling.<br /><br />...<br /><br />A mile below me I see the sea. It is raining and I am up in the hills; an overhanging rock shelters me from the rain. I smoke my pipe, smoke one pipe after another, and every time I light up the tobacco curls up from the ash like little glowing worms. So is it also with the thoughts that teem in my head. In front of me on the ground lies a bundle of dry twigs, a shattered bird's nest. And as with that nest, so it is with my soul.<br /><br />-Knut Hamsun, <em>Pan</em><br /><br />The consumer is protected from coercion by the seller because of the presence of other sellers with whom he can deal. The seller is protected from coercion by the consumer because of other consumers to whom he can sell. The employee is protected from coercion by the employer because of other employers for whom he can work, and so on. And the market does this impersonally and without centralized authority.<br /><br />Indeed, a major source of objection to a free economy is precisely that it does this task so well. It gives people what they want instead of what a particular group thinks they ought to want. Underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of belief in freedom itself.<br /><br />...<br /><br />In particular, we shall always want to enter on the liability side of any proposed government intervention, its neighborhood effect in threatening freedom, and give this effect considerable weight.<br /><br />-Milton Friedman, <em>Capitalism and Freedom</em><br /><br /><em>From </em><strong>Pomegranate</strong><br /><br />For all that, the setting suns are open.<br />The end cracks open with the beginning:<br />Rosy, tender, glittering within the fissure.<br /><br />Do you mean to tell me there should be no fissure?<br />No glittering, compact drops of dawn?<br />Do you mean it is wrong, the gold-filmed skin, integument, shown ruptured?<br /><br />For my part, I prefer my heart to be broken.<br />It is so lovely, dawn-kaleidoscopic within the crack.<br /><br />-D.H. Lawrence<br /><br />...
