+++
title = "Quotes from John Steinbeck's 'Travels with Charley'"
date = 2007-07-23T22:37:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:46:19Z
tags = ["war", "literature", "dogs", "Steinbeck", "aging", "philosophy", "travel", "peace"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

A dog, particularly an exotic like Charley, is a bond between strangers.  Many conversations en route began with "What degree of a dog is that?"<br /><br />...<br /><br />The dairy man had a Ph.D. in mathematics, and he must have had some training in philosophy.  He liked what he was doing and he didn't want to be somewhere else - one of the very few contented people I met in my whole journey.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Then a submarine slipped to the surface half a mile away, and the day lost part of its brightness.  Farther away another dark creature slashed through the water, and another; of course they are based in New London, and this is their home.  And perhaps they are keeping the world's peace with their venom.  I wish I could like submarines, for then I might find them beautiful, but they are designed for destruction, and while they may explore and chart the sea bottom, and draw new trade lines under the Arctic ice, their main purpose is threat.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Who doesn't like to be a center for concern?  A kind of second childhood falls on so many men.  They trade their violence for the promise of a small increase of life span.  In effect, the head of the house becomes the youngest child.  And I have searched myself for this possibility with a kind of horror.  For I have always lived violently, drunk hugely, eaten too much or not at all, slept around the clock or missed two nights of sleeping, worked too hard and too long in glory, or slobbed for a time in utter laziness.  I've lifted, pulled, chopped, climbed, made love with joy and taken my hangovers as a consequence, not as a punishment.  I did not want to surrender fierceness for a small gain in yardage.  My wife married a man; I saw no reason why she should inherit a baby. <br /><br />...<br /><br />I saw in their eyes something I was to see over and over in every part of the nation - a burning desire to go, to move, to get under way, anyplace, away from any Here.<br /><br />...<br /><br />The word "Ftt" usually means he would like to salute a bush or a tree.  I opened the cab door and let him out, and he went about his ceremony.  He doesn't have to think about it to do it well.  It is my experience that in some areas Charley is more intelligent than I am, but in others he is abysmally ignorant.  He can't read, can't drive a car, and has no grasp of mathematics.  But in his own field of endeavor, which was now practicing, the slow, imperial smelling over and anointing of an area, he has no peer.  Of course his horizons are limited, but how wide are mine?<br /><br />-John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley in Search of America </em><br /><br />(Personal note: Steinbeck is my favorite American writer, and <em>Travels with Charley </em>is on track to become one of my absolute favorite books; I'm especially excited about it because my family just got a second dog, a black retriever named Maggie.  I'll get to meet Maggie for the first time when I go home to Muskegon on Friday for a Counting Crows concert.)<br /><br />---
