+++
title = "Great quotes from recent reading"
date = 2007-11-08T00:13:00Z
updated = 2007-11-08T01:08:21Z
tags = ["Randall Jarrell", "Robert Frost", "literature", "love", "loneliness", "memory", "poetry", "international relations", "peace", "Natsume Soseki"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

We keep the wall between us as we go.<br />To each the boulders that have fallen to each.<br /><br />Robert Frost<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">From </span>"Mending Wall"<br /><br />World peace cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it.<br /><br />Robert Schumann<br />  --"The Schumann Declaration"<br /><br />I asked her, urgently, if she could see my face, and she said: "See it?" And, smiling: "It's reflected in my eyes, isn't it?"<br /><span style="font-size:85%;"><br />(じゃ、私の顔が見えるかいと一心に聞くと、見えるかいって、そら、そこに、写ってるじゃありませんかと、にこりと笑ってみせた。）</span><br /><br />Natsume Soseki<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">From </span>"The First Night"<br /><br />And home, where passion lived and died,<br />Becomes a place where she can hide,<br />While all the town and harbor side<br />Vibrate with her seclusion.<br /><br />Edwin Arlington Robinson<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">From </span>"Eros Turannos"<br /><br />Despite all of these examples of colloquialism and apparent simplicity in Frost's poetry, we should not be deceived into thinking of Frost as a rustic or a primitive.  On the contrary, Frost was a sophisticated writer who was well versed in Latin poetry and who knew as well as any poet of his time how to make effective use of formal and rhetorical strategies.  From his early career on, Frost prided himself on being "one of the most notable craftsmen of my time," as he wrote in his 1913 letter to John Bartlett.<br /><br />Christopher Beach<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Cambridge Introduction to Twentieth-Century American Poetry<br /><br /></span><span style="font-weight: bold;">In Those Days</span><span style="font-weight: bold;"><br /><br /></span>In those days - they were long ago -<br />The snow was cold, the night was black.<br />I licked from my cracked lips<br />A snowflake, as I looked back<br /><br />Through branches, the last uneasy snow.<br />Your shadow, there in the light, was still.<br />In a little the light went out.<br />I went on, stumbling - till at last the hill<br /><br />Hid the house.  And, yawning,<br />In bed in my room, alone,<br />I would look out: over the quilted<br />Rooftops, the clear stars shone.<br /><br />How poor and miserable we were,<br />How seldom together!<br />And yet after so long one thinks:<br />In those days everything was better.<span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;"><br /><br />--</span></span>Randall Jarrell<br /><span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;"><br /></span></span>
