+++
title = "Great quotes on education and business"
date = 2007-07-16T21:59:00Z
updated = 2007-07-16T22:13:58Z
tags = ["reading", "education", "Lord Acton", "business", "books", "college"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

After all, I got into teaching for the same reason, I suspect, that many people did: because I thought it was a high-stakes affair, a pursuit in which souls are won and lost.<br /><br />...<br /><br />One of the ways we've tried to be attractive is by loosening up.  We grade much more genially than our colleagues in the sciences.  In English and history, we don't give many D's, or C's, either.  (The rigors of Chem 101 may create almost as many humanities majors per year as the splendors of Shakespeare.)  A professor at Stanford explained that grades were getting better because the students were getting smarter every year.  Anything, I suppose, is possible.<br /><br />...<br /><br />As I read the reviews, I thought of a story I'd heard about a Columbia University instructor who issued a two-part question at the end of his literature course.  Part one: What book in the course did you most dislike?  Part two: What flaws of intellect or character does that dislike point up in you?  The hand that framed those questions may have been slightly heavy.  But at least they compelled the students to see intellectual work as a confrontation between two people, reader and author, where the stakes mattered.<br /><br />-Mark Edmundson, <em>Why Read?</em><br /><br />The best businessperson in the world can't sell something the world isn't ready to use.  People don't buy inventions.  They don't buy technology.  They buy a solution to a perceived problem.  And if you have the greatest solution in the world and people don't perceive it as the solution to their problem, they are not going to buy it.<br /><br />-Dean Kamen, in Kurtzman, ed., <em>MBA in a Box</em><br /><br />[Lord] Acton's learning and culture, like his ideas, were neither casually acquired nor casually expended.  The languages he assimilated from his multilingual, multinational family were deliberately refined by years of careful study, and were cultivated as scholarly tools rather than as social graces.  It was this seriousness and dedication of purpose that characterized the whole of his life, that made of his library not the cultured gentleman's lounge but the crowded workshop of the professional historian.<br /><br />-Gertrude Himmelfarb, <em>Lord Acton: A Study in Conscience and Politics</em>
