+++
title = "Quotes from the week's reading, part 1"
date = 2007-08-30T18:25:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:01:35Z
tags = ["poverty", "literature", "poetry", "economics", "books"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<em>From</em> <strong>How It Should Be in Heaven<br /></strong><br />How it should be in Heaven I know, for I was there.<br />By its river.  Listening to its birds.<br />In its season: in summer, shortly after sunrise.<br />…<br />Peace eternal<br />Could have no mornings and no evenings,<br />Such a deficiency speaks against it.<br />And that’s too hard a nut for a theologian to crack.<br /><br />--Czeslaw Milosz<br /><br />A business that makes nothing but money is a poor kind of business.<br /><br />--Joel Kurtzman, <em>MBA in a Box</em><br /><br />There is every reason to help the poor man who happens to be a farmer, not because he is a farmer but because he is poor.  The program, that is, should be designed to help people as people, not as members of particular occupational groups, age groups, wage-rate groups, labor organizations, or industries.  … The arrangement that recommends itself on purely mechanical grounds is a negative income tax…. The advantages of this arrangement are clear.  It is directed specifically at  the problem of poverty.  It gives help in the form most useful to the individual, namely, cash.  It is general and could be substituted for the host of special measures now in effect.  It makes explicit the cost borne by society.  Like any other measures to alleviate poverty, it reduces the incentives of those helped to help themselves, but it does not eliminate that incentive entirely, as a system of supplementing incomes up to some fixed minimum would.<br /><br />--Milton Friedman, <em>Capitalism and Freedom</em><br /><br /><strong>And Yet The Books</strong><br /><br />And yet the books will be there on the shelves, separate beings,<br />That appeared once, still wet<br />As shining chestnuts under a tree in autumn,<br />And, touched, coddled, began to live<br />In spite of fires on the horizon, castles blown up,<br />Tribes on the march, planets in motion.<br />“We are,” they said, even as their pages<br />Were being torn out, or a buzzing flame<br />Licked away their letters.  So much more durable<br />Than we are, whose frail warmth<br />Cools down with memory, disperses, perishes.<br />I imagine the earth when I am no more:<br />Nothing happens, no loss, it’s still a strange pageant,<br />Women’s dresses, dewy lilacs, a song in the valley.<br />Yet the books will be there on the shelves, well born,<br />Derived from people, but also from radiance, heights.<br /><br />--Czeslaw Milosz<br /><br /><em>From</em> <strong>Relics of the Past</strong><br /><br />The dust raised by the royal cavalry has long since settled.<br />One by one, poets and historians, the standard-bearers of culture,<br />have gone silently to their graves.  Of what use is the purple<br />and fine linen now, the baubles that women love?<br /><br />--Akhtarul Iman, tr. R. Parthsarathy
