+++
title = "Readings from Hemingway, O'Connor, and K. Shapiro"
date = 2009-06-07T18:13:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:11:32Z
tags = ["Judaism", "capitalism", "Michigan", "peace", "environment", "religion", "pacifism"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

Nick's heart tightened as the trout moved.  He felt all the old feeling.<br />...<br />His muscles ached and the day was hot, but Nick felt happy.  He had left everything behind, the need for thinking, the need to write, other needs.  It was all back of him.  From the time he had gotten down off the train and the baggage man had thrown his pack out of the open car door things had been different.  Seney was burned, the country was burned over and changed, but it did not matter.  It could not all be burned.<br />...<br />The road ran on, dipping occasionally, but always climbing.<br />...<br />Inside the tent the light came through the brown canvas.  It smelled pleasantly of canvas.  Already there was something mysterious and homelike.  Nick was happy as he crawled inside the tent.  He had not been unhappy all day.  This was different though.  Now things were done.  There had been this to do.  Now it was done.  It had been a hard trip.  He was very tired.  That was done.  He had made his camp.  He was settled.  Nothing could touch him.  It was a good place to camp.  He was there, in the good place.  He was in his home where he had made it.<br />...<br />Nick laughed.  It made a good ending to the story.<br /><br />Ernest Hemingway<br />--"Big Two-Hearted River: Part I"<br /><br />The 'heroes of the spirit,' Elijah shows the conventional rabbi Baroka, are not the ostentatiously pious, not even the learned and devout like Baroka himself....  They may appear to be quite ordinary individuals, not even religious in a conventional sense, whose quiet deeds enhance the quality of life around them - the carers, the compassionate, those who use their talents to ease the burden of humanity.<br /><br />Norman Solomon<br />--<em>Judaism: A Very Short Introduction</em><br /><br />The tide of darkness seemed to sweep him back to her, postponing from moment to moment his entry into the world of guilt and sorrow.<br /><br />Flannery O'Connor<br />--"Everything That Rises Must Converge"<br /><br />But no appeal has yet been made to the vast American middle class, the majority class, to detach itself from our competitive industrial insanity.  It is indeed our industrial way of life that lends sanction to militarism and colonialism, Preparedness and suppression of human rights.  Our enemy, strange as it may sound to American ears, is the Standard of Living.  We worship at the altar of the White Rhinoceros, the American kitchen.  Standard of Living is the holy of holies in whose name every other evil is committed.  To lower this standard or to equalize it among the peoples of the world is our greatest need.  And the first step is to disassociate ourselves from the industrial-scientific madness which rules our lives twenty-four hours a day.<br />...<br />To remove ourselves from the world of competition is of paramount importance to the individual and to the nation.  Competition is the most terrible vice of modern society.  Competition is the disease of the West and is the source of our violence.  Non-violence means non-competition.  ...It cannot be employed by governments because governments are by definition committed to violence.  Nonviolence is not a prerogative of governments but of men, even of one man.  One nonviolent man, like Gandhi or Christ, can change history.  Governments can only keep history on the march.  <em>Ahimsa</em> can stop history.<br />...<br />Vinoba Bhave, the greatest living disciple of Gandhi, who travels throughout India asking for land for the peasantry from the great landlords and receiving it, says: "I desire to humiliate neither the rich nor the poor..."  This is the opposite of communist expropriation or of capitalist competition.<br />...<br />Instead of class war and hatred as preached by the communists or industrial-scientific competition as preached by us, to survive we must behave nonviolently and in the spirit of love.<br /><br />Karl Shapiro<br />--"To Revive Anarchism" in <em>Creative Glut</em>
