+++
title = "Quotes from James, Meredith, Campbell, and Jung"
date = 2007-11-24T01:20:00Z
updated = 2007-11-24T01:38:44Z
tags = ["love", "psychology", "William Meredith", "philosophy", "optimism", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

His lack of all thought by which to weigh the danger against the attractiveness of the bait, and of all volition to remain hungry a little while longer, is the direct measure of his lowness in the mental scale.<br /><br />William James<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Principles of Psychology</span><br /><br />But whether small or great, and no matter what the stage or grade of life, the call (to adventure) rings up the curtain, always, on a mystery of transfiguration - a rite, or moment, of spiritual passage, which, when complete, amounts to a dying and a birth.  The familiar life horizon has been outgrown; the old concepts, ideals, and emotional patterns no longer fit; the time for the passing of a threshold is at hand.<br />...<br />Refusal of the summons converts the adventure into its negative.  Walled in boredom, hard work, or "culture," the subject loses the power of significant affirmative action and becomes a victim to be saved.  His flowering world becomes a wasteland of dry stones and his life feels meaningless....  Whatever house he builds, it will be a house of death: a labyrinth of cyclopean walls to hide from him his Minotaur.  ...The myths and folk tales of the whole world make clear that the refusal is essentially a refusal to give up what one takes to be one's own interest.  The future is regarded not in terms of an unremitting series of deaths and births, but as though one's present system of ideals, virtues, goals, and advantages were to be fixed and made secure.<br /><br />Joseph Campbell<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Hero With a Thousand Faces</span><br /><br />Romeo wants Juliet as the filings want the magnet; and if no obstacles intervene he moves toward her by as straight a line as they.  But Romeo and Juliet, if a wall be built between them, do not remain idiotically pressing their faces against its opposite sides like the magnet and the filings with the card.  Romeo soon finds a circuitous way, by scaling the wall or otherwise, of touching Juliet's lips directly.<br /><br />William James<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Principles of Psychology</span><br /><br />(The introvert's) ideal is a lonely island where nothing moves except what he permits to move.<br /><br />Carl Jung<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">Psychological Types</span><br /><br />In all ages the man whose determinations are swayed by reference to the most distant ends has been held to possess the highest intelligence.  The tramp who lives from hour to hour; the bohemian whose engagements are from day to day; the bachelor who builds but for a single life; the father who acts for another generation; the patriot who thinks of a whole community and many generations; and finally, the philosopher and saint whose cares are for humanity and for eternity, - these range themselves in an unbroken hierarchy....<br /><br />William James<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Principles of Psychology</span><br /><br />I read, I love<br />I eat, I drink<br />I watch the world tilt<br />I watch the children think:<br />there's so much to it<br />and most of it good<br />that while I've tendons<br />to lift my head,<br />like a rooster drinking<br />I'll nod to God<br />and save despair<br />for when I'm dead.<br /><br />William Meredith<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">From </span>"The Preponderance"
