+++
title = "Quotes from Hamsun, Du Bois, and Salomon"
date = 2008-01-21T12:13:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:05:31Z
tags = ["frugality", "literature", "love", "education", "happiness", "democracy"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

-Happy <a href="http://youtube.com/watch?v=PbUtL_0vAJk">Martin Luther King Jr.</a> Day!<br /><br />Honest and earnest criticism from those whose interests are most nearly touched - criticism of writers by readers, of government by those governed, of leaders by those led - this is the soul of democracy and the safeguard of modern society.<br />...<br />In fact the burden belongs to the nation, and the hands of none of us are clean if we bend not our energies to righting these wrongs.<br />...<br />The opposition to Negro education in the South was at first bitter, and showed itself in ashes, insult, and blood; for the South believed an educated Negro to be a dangerous Negro.  And the South was not wholly wrong; for education among all kinds of men always has had, and always will have, an element of danger and revolution, of dissatisfaction and discontent.  Nevertheless, men strive to know.<br />...<br />To be a poor man is hard, but to be a poor race in a land of dollars is the very bottom of hardships.<br /><br />W.E.B. Du Bois<br /> --<em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Souls-Black-Norton-Critical-Editions/dp/039397393X/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1200937222&amp;sr=1-2">The Souls of Black Folk</a></em><br /><br />His emotion had made him a boy again, a child sitting quietly with folded arms.<br />...<br />'It's spring, I'm walking into the new season,' Rolandsen answered over his shoulder as he went by.<br />...<br />On the other hand, he was not God, he could not contain his heart if it insisted on flying away in the spring.<br />...<br />The nights too were bright and sunny.  It was weather for dreamers, for young people to flit about in restless excitement.  They wandered the roads at night, singing and beating the air with sallow-twigs.  And from all the isles and skerries came the sound of birds: guillemots and oyster-catchers and gulls and eiderducks.  The seal thrust his dripping head up out of the water and looked around, then dived back down again to his own world.<br />...<br />He went to the sexton's house to look for Olga.  Now that it was spring Rolandsen had to have a sweetheart; it was no easy matter to hold his own great heart in check.<br />...<br />Alas, Rolandsen was ever hopeful; it took very little to rouse his expectations.  But it had to be admitted that he was also good at bearing disappointments; he was proud and resilient and his spirit was never broken.<br /><br />Knut Hamsun<br />  --<em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Dreamers-Directions-Classics-Knut-Hamsun/dp/0811213218">Dreamers</a></em><br /><br />Some people are always getting a bigger boat, but rarely sail.<br />...<br />All these books boil down to the same message: 'Resist the urge to buy.'  Once you learn how to do it, it becomes second nature.<br />...<br />Most people find that stuff does indeed expand to fill the space provided.  Do you want to encourage this tendency with the stuff in your house?  Extra space will cost you in several ways: money and times to decorate, clean, and maintain; energy to heat and cool all that space; and outdoor space (the more you put under roof, the less you'll have outside).  There's also the house law of diminishing returns: the difference between having one bathroom or none is enormous, but between two or three may be negligible.<br />...<br />Living smaller frees up...time and money to pursue fun.  Having good friends is a proven mood elevator.<br />...<br />Polls show that most Americans believe we must earn about twice the median income to be solidly middle class - that is, we believe that what we earn, on average, is just not enough.<br /><br />Shay Salomon and Nigel Valdez<br />  --<em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Little-House-Small-Planet-Possibilities/dp/1592288685/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1200937031&amp;sr=8-1">Little House on a Small Planet</a></em>
