+++
title = "Lines by Levertov, Wilbur, Lowell, and Stafford"
date = 2007-07-02T20:36:00Z
updated = 2007-07-02T20:59:32Z
tags = ["literature", "poetry", "aging", "travel"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<span style="font-weight: bold;">Overland to the Islands</span><br /><br />Let's go - much as that dog goes,<br />intently haphazard.  The<br />Mexican light on a day that<br />'smells like autumn in Connecticut'<br />makes iris ripples on his<br />black gleaming fur - and that too<br />is as one would desire - a radiance<br />consorting with the dance.<br /><br />Under his feet<br />rocks and mud, his imagination, sniffing,<br />engaged in its perceptions - dancing<br />edgeways, there's nothing<br />the dog disdains on his way,<br />nevertheless he<br />keeps moving, changing<br />pace and approach but<br />not direction - 'every step an arrival'.<br /><br />-<span style="font-style: italic;">Denise Levertov</span><br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From</span> <span style="font-weight: bold;">The Undead</span><br /><br />To prey on life forever and not possess it,<br />As rock-hollows, tide after tide,<br />Glassily strand the sea.<br /><br />-<span style="font-style: italic;">Richard Wilbur</span><br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From</span> <span style="font-weight: bold;">Katherine's Dream</span><br /><br />Where are you?  You were with me and are gone.<br />All the forgiven couples hurry on<br />To dinner and their nights, and none will stop.<br />I run about in circles till I drop<br />Against a padlocked bulkhead in a yard<br />Where faces redden and the snow is hard.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">-Robert Lowell</span><br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">For Sale</span><br /><br />Poor sheepish plaything,<br />organized with prodigal animosity,<br />lived in just a year -<br />my Father's cottage at Beverly Farms<br />was on the market the month he died.<br />Empty, open, intimate,<br />its town-house furniture<br />had on a tiptoe air<br />of waiting for the mover<br />on the heels of the undertaker.<br /><br />Ready, afraid<br />of living alone till eighty,<br />Mother mooned in a window,<br />as if she had stayed on a train<br />one stop past her destination.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">-Robert Lowell</span><br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">Strokes</span><br /><br />The left side of her world is gone -<br />the rest sustained by memory<br />and a realization: There are still the children.<br /><br />Going down our porch steps her pastor<br />calls back: 'We are proud of her recovery,<br />and there is a chiropractor up in Galesburg...'<br /><br />The birthdays of the old require such candles.<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">-William Stafford</span>
