+++
title = "Quotes from Pascal's 'Thoughts'"
date = 2007-08-03T01:11:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:45:39Z
tags = ["thought", "Pascal", "philosophy", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

Never does one do evil so fully and so gaily as when one does it as a matter of conscience.<br /><br />--Pensee<em> </em>895<br /><br />What a man's virtue is capable of is not to be measured by his exceptional efforts, but by his daily life.<br /><br />--Pensee 352<br /><br />He must have movements of humiliation, not as a consequence of his nature, but of penitence; not as a constant attitude, but to permit him to rise to elevation.  He must have movements of elevation, not because of his merit, but through grace, and after passing through humiliation.<br /><br />--Pensee 525<br /><br />Now, what advantage is there for us in hearing a man say that he has shaken off the yoke, that he does not believe there is a God watching over his actions, that he considers himself as sole master of his own conduct, and that he intends to be accountable to no one but himself?  Does he think he has inclined us in this way to have henceforth much confidence in him, and to expect from him consolation, counsel, and assistance in all the emergencies of life?  Do such people claim to have caused us to rejoice by telling us that they consider that our soul is only a little wind and smoke, and even by telling us so in a proud and smug tone of voice?  Is that really something to be said gaily?  Is it not on the contrary something to be said sadly, as the saddest thing in the world?<br /><br />--Pensee 194<br /><br />Faith declares indeed what the senses do not say but never the contrary of what they perceive.  Faith is above, and not against.<br /><br />--Pensee 265<br /><br />It is being superstitious to put one's hope in rites; but one is guilty of overweening pride in refusing to submit to them.<br /><br />--Pensee 294<br /><br />Just examine whether a given pleasure is stable or fleeting; if it passes, it is a river of Babylon.<br /><br />--Pensee 459<br /><br />It is not from space that I must seek my dignity, but it is from the ordering of my thought.  The possession of lands would give me nothing more.  By space, the universe envelops me.  By thought, I envelop it.<br /><br />--Pensee 348<br /><br />They imagine that, if they had obtained that post, they would rest afterwards with pleasure; but they do not recognize the insatiable nature of their desire.  They believe that they are sincerely seeking repose, and in reality they seek only agitation.<br /><br />--Pensee 139<br /><br />---
