+++
title = "Poems from the Far East"
date = 2007-04-29T00:03:00Z
updated = 2007-04-29T01:07:40Z
tags = ["Korea", "Japan", "literature", "poetry", "East Asia"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

My recent fascination with Korean poetry continues, and tonight I spent an hour or two reading Japanese poetry as well.  Here's a small sample of what I found:<br /><br /><strong>Deer</strong><br /><br />Sad creature, neck stretched out;<br />Dignified always, you say nothing at all.<br />With your crown so fragrant,<br />Yours was too noble a clan.<br /><br />As you stare into the depths<br />And think of lost legends,<br />In overwhelming sadness, you turn your neck<br />And look toward mountains far away.<br /><br /><em>No Ch’onmyong</em><br /><br /><strong>Silent, but…<br /></strong><br />I may be silent, but<br />I’m thinking.<br />I may not talk, but<br />Don’t mistake me for a wall.<br /><br /><em>Tsuboi Shigeji</em><br /><br />Through the train window,<br />Far away to the north,<br />The hills above my home<br />Come slowly into sight,<br />And I straighten my collar.<br /><br /><em>Ishikawa Takuboku</em><br /><br />Today, my friends<br />All seemed to be<br />More a success than I.<br />So I brought flowers<br />And took them to<br />My wife, to make her happy.<br /><br /><em>Ishikawa Takuboku</em><br /><br /><strong>Star<br /></strong><br />How far far away<br />one star looks, when I’m lying on my back.<br /><br />At the same time how near, as if linked<br />by a golden thread to the corner of my squinting eye,<br /><br />and in the night, when I gently wake,<br />how tightly I press against the window-pane, peeping out.<br /><br />Abruptly, as if sprouting,<br />as if waiting to be called, as if welcoming,<br /><br />suddenly, a lonely flame flares within my soul<br />in regrets that gust like the wind.<br /><br />I rise in my white night-clothes<br />and clasp my hands to my heart.<br /><br /><em>Chong Chi-yong</em><br /><br /><strong>Sorrow of Parting<br /></strong><br />In the ear of an anchor, a gull croaks.<br />Suddenly, without a word, the anchor glides down.<br />Startled, the seagull takes off.<br />In a moment, the anchor turns pale in the water, sinking.<br />And what the seagull feels becomes a wild, sad scream<br />Lost in the wind.<br /><br /><em>Maruyama Kaoru</em><br /><br /><strong>Night song of a traveler<br /></strong><br />Cold rain swirls savagely,<br />The lantern in my head hardly<br />Pierces the gloom at my feet,<br />Walking through endless night.<br /><br />Why should I be walking?<br />I have put them aside – engulfing<br />Bed, warm talk, light.  But<br />Why should I be walking?<br /><br />When dawn comes, before I sleep,<br />Where should I get to?  And, once there,<br />What should I do?<br /><br />Wet through to the skin –<br />But, wet, I recall<br />Only good memories.<br /><br />Shall I go home?<br />Or shall I go down<br />That street of red lights?<br />No.  Into the darkness.<br /><br /><em>Tachihara Michizo</em>
