+++
title = "Poems and fragments by Frost, Arnold, Millay, Auden, and Sandburg"
date = 2007-04-15T14:27:00Z
updated = 2007-04-15T14:45:37Z
tags = ["literature", "poetry", "travel"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

A few wonderful lines I've discovered or re-discovered in this weekend's reading:<br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>Escapist - Never</strong><br /><em>Robert Frost</em><br /><br />His life is a pursuit of a pursuit forever.<br />It is the future that creates his present.<br />All is an interminable chain of longing.<br /><strong></strong><br /><strong>To Marguerite - Continued</strong><br /><em>Matthew Arnold</em><br /><br />Yes! in the sea of life enisled,<br />With echoing straits between us thrown,<br />Dotting the shoreless watery wild,<br />We mortal millions live <em>alone</em>.<br />The islands feel the enclasping flow,<br />And then their endless bounds they know.<br /><br />But when the moon their hollows lights,<br />And they are swept by balms of spring,<br />And in their glens, on starry nights,<br />The nightingales divinely sing;<br />And lovely notes, from shore to shore,<br />Across the sounds and channels pour -<br /><br />O! then a longing like despair<br />Is to their farthest caverns sent;<br />For surely once, they feel, we were<br />Parts of a single continent!<br />Now round us spreads the watery plain—<br />O might our marges meet again!<br /><br />Who order'd that their longing's fire<br />Should be, as soon as kindled, cooled?<br />Who renders vain their deep desire?—<br />A God, a God their severance ruled!<br />And bade betwixt their shores to be<br />The unplumbed, salt, estranging sea.<br /><br /><em>From </em><strong>Exiled</strong><br /><em>Edna St. Vincent Millay</em><br /><br />Always I climbed the wave at morning,<br />Shook the sand from my shoes at night,<br />That now am caught beneath great buildings,<br />Stricken with noise, confused with light.<br />...<br />I should be happy, that am happy<br />Never at all since I came here.<br />I am too long away from water.<br />I have a need of water near.<br /><br /><strong>Song of the Master and Boatswain</strong><br /><em>W.H. Auden</em><br /><br />At Dirty Dick’s and Sloppy Joe’s<br />We drank our liquor straight,<br />Some went upstairs with Margery,<br />And some, alas, with Kate;<br />And two by two like cat and mouse,<br />The homeless played at keeping house.<br /><br />There Wealthy Meg, the Sailor’s Friend,<br />And Marion, cow-eyed,<br />Opened their arms to me, but I<br />Refused to step inside;<br />I was not looking for a cage<br />In which to mope in my old age.<br /><br />The nightingales are sobbing in<br />The orchards of our mothers,<br />And hearts that we broke long ago<br />Have long been breaking others;<br />Tears are round, the sea is deep:<br />Roll them overboard and sleep.<br /><br /><strong>Window</strong><br /><em>Carl Sandburg</em><br /><br />Night from a railroad car window<br />Is a great, dark, soft thing<br />Broken across with slashes of light.
