+++
title = "Brief readings on home, travel, and finance"
date = 2007-07-31T23:34:00Z
updated = 2007-07-31T23:54:58Z
tags = ["home", "literature", "dogs", "Steinbeck", "finance", "investing", "poetry", "economics", "travel"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<strong>A Short History</strong><br /><br />Corn planted us; tamed cattle made us tame.<br />Thence hut and citadel and kingdom came.<br /><br /><em>--Richard Wilbur</em><br /><br />Let us not fool ourselves. What we knew is dead, and maybe the greatest part of what we were is dead. What's out there is perhaps good, but it's nothing we know.<br /><br />--John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br />The place of my origin had changed, and having gone away I had not changed with it. In my memory it stood as it once did and its outward appearance confused and angered me.<br /><br />--John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><em></em><br /><strong><em>From </em>For C.</strong><br /><strong></strong><br />After the clash of elevator gates<br />And the long sinking, she emerges where,<br />A slight thing in the morning's crosstown glare,<br />She looks up toward the window where he waits,<br />Then in a fleeting taxi joins the rest<br />Of the huge traffic bound forever west.<br /><br /><em>--Richard Wilbur</em><br /><br />Now, financial analysts in pin-striped suits do not like being compared with bare-assed apes.<br /><br />--Burton Malkiel, <em>A Random Walk Down Wall Street</em><br /><br />When a stranger addresses Charley in baby talk, Charley avoids him. For Charley is not a human; he's a dog, and he likes it that way. He feels that he is a first-rate dog and has no wish to be a second-rate human.<br /><br />--John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br />The public, it seemed, would buy anything. ...The prize...must surely goe to the unknown soul who started "A Company for carrying on an undertaking of great advantage, but nobody to know what it is." The prospectus promised unheard-of rewards. At nine o'clock in the morning, when the subscription books opened, crowds of people from all walks of life practically beat down the door in an effort to subscribe. Within five hours 1,000 investors handed over their money for shares in the company. Not being greedy himself, the promoter promptly closed up shop and set off for the Continent. He was never heard from again.<br /><br />--Burton Malkiel, <em>A Random Walk Down Wall Street</em><br /><br />---
