+++
title = "East of Eden quotes - third and last batch"
date = 2007-06-14T23:01:00Z
updated = 2007-06-14T23:07:27Z
tags = ["literature", "Steinbeck", "East of Eden"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

You see, there’s a responsibility in being a person.  It’s more than just taking up space where air would be.<br /><br />…<br /><br /><br />He looked up at the sky.  “Lord, how the day passes!  It’s like a life - so quickly when we don’t watch it and so slowly when we do.  No,” he said, “I’m having enjoyment.  And I made a promise to myself that I would not consider enjoyment a sin.  I take a pleasure in inquiring into things.  I’ve never been content to pass a stone without looking under it.  And it is a black disappointment to me that I can never see the far side of the moon.”<br /><br />…<br /><br />“But there’s all that fallow land, and here beside me is all that fallow man.  It seems a waste.  And I have a bad feeling about waste because I could never afford it.  Is it a good thing to let life lie fallow?”<br /><br />“What else could I do?”<br /><br />“You could try again.”<br /><br />…<br /><br />“I can’t tell you how to live your life,” Samuel said, “although I do be telling you how to live it.  I know that it might be better for you to come out from under your might-have-beens, into the winds of the world.  And while I tell you, I am myself sifting my memories, the way men pan the dirt under a barroom floor for the bits of gold dust that fall between the cracks.  It’s small mining - small mining.  You’re too young a man to be panning memories, Adam.  You should be getting yourself some new ones, so that the mining will be richer when you come to age.”<br /><br />…<br /><br />“I love that dust heap,” Samuel said.  “I love it the way a bitch loves her runty pup.  I love every flint, the plow-breaking outcroppings, the thin and barren topsoil, the waterless heart of her.  Somewhere in my dust heap there’s a richness.”<br /><br />….<br /><br />“I’m free, she’s gone,” he chanted aloud.<br /><br />…<br /><br />Virtue and vice were warp and woof of our first consciousness, and they will be the fabric of our last, and this despite any changes we may impose on field and river and mountain, on economy and manners.<br /><br />…<br /><br />It seems to me that if you or I must choose between two courses of thought or action, we should remember our dying and try so to live that our death brings no pleasure to the world.<br /><br />…<br /><br />The nation and the Salinas Valley changed its songs.  At first we sang of how we would knock the hell out of Helgoland and hang the Kaiser and march over there and clean up the mess them damn foreigners had made.  And then suddenly we sang, “In the war’s red curse stands the Red Cross nurse.  She’s the rose of No Man’s Land,” and we sang, “Hello, central, give me heaven, ‘cause my Daddy’s there”….  I guess we were like a tough but inexperienced little boy who gets punched in the nose in the first flurry and it hurts and we wished it was over.  [<span style="font-style: italic;">As today, in Iraq.</span>]<br /><br />…<br /><br />She went back to work.  “Do you think it’s funny to be so serious when I’m not even out of high school?” she asked.<br /><br />“I don’t see how it could be any other way,” said Lee.  “Laughter comes later, like wisdom teeth, and laughter at yourself comes last of all in a mad race with death, and sometimes it isn’t in time.”
