+++
title = "Quotes from Steinbeck's 'East of Eden'"
date = 2007-06-02T21:38:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:44:03Z
tags = ["war", "literature", "individualism", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I'm 180 pages into <em>East of Eden; </em>here are a few of the passages that have caught my attention thus far:<br /><br />And it never failed that during the dry years the people forgot about the rich years, and during the wet years they lost all memory of the dry years. It was always that way.<br />...<br />To Adam who was an instrument, who saw not the future farms but only the torn bellies of fine humans, it was revolting and useless. When he fired his carbine to miss he was committing treason against his unit, and he didn't care. The emotion of nonviolence was building in him until it became a prejudice like any other thought-stultifying prejudice. To inflict any hurt on anything for any purpose became inimical to him.<br />...<br />A thing so triumphantly illogical, so beautifully senseless as an army can't allow a question to weaken it.<br />...<br />It is possible that his virtue lived on a lack of energy.<br />...<br />He lived in a world shining and fresh and as uninspected as Eden on the sixth day. His mind plunged like a colt in a happy pasture, and when later the world put up fences he plunged against the wire, and when the final stockade surrounded him, he plunged right through it and out. And as he was capable of great joy, so did he harbor huge sorrow, so that when his dog died the world ended.<br />...<br />Charles developed a restlessness that got him out at dawn. He worked the farm mightily because he was lonely.<br />...<br />Adam felt that he was sleepwalking. It is a hard thing to leave any deeply routined life, even if you hate it. In the morning he awakened on a split second and lay waiting for reveille. His calves missed the hug of leggings and his throat felt naked without its tight collar.<br />...<br />Adam walked through the dark town, increasing his speed as though his loneliness sniffed along behind him.<br />...<br />Adam said, 'Let me tell you. The proofs that God does not exist are very strong, but in lots of people they are not as strong as the feeling that He does.'<br />...<br />If the Germans had known Olive and had been sensible they would have gone out of their way not to anger her.  But they didn't know or they were stupid.  When they killed Martin Hopps they lost the war because that made my mother mad and she took out after them.  She had liked Martin Hopps.  He had never hurt anyone.  When they killed him Olive declared war on the German empire.<br />...<br />The Catholic church, first on the scene and deeply dug in, sat in comfortable tradition while the missions were gradually abandoned and their roofs fell in and pigeons roosted on the stripped altars.<br />...<br />Louis said half derisively and half with admiration, 'He's always thinking about how to change things.  He's never satisfied with the way they are.'<br />...<br />'My dear,' he said, 'can't you see?  You must not destroy life.  That's the one thing that gets me crazy.  God knows I lose patients because I don't know enough.  But I try - I always try.  And then I see a deliberate killing.'  He talked rapidly on.  He dreaded the sick silence between his sentences.  ... 'Have you met Mrs. Laurel?  She's wasting and crying for a baby.  Everything she has or can get she would give to have a baby, and you - you try to stab yours with a knitting needle.'<br />...<br />Perhaps Adam did not see Cathy at all, so lighted was she by his eyes.  Burned in his mind was an image of beauty and tenderness, a sweet and holy girl, precious beyond thinking, clean and loving, and that image was Cathy to her husband, and nothing Cathy did or said could warp Adam's Cathy.<br />...<br />A man's mind vagued up a little, for how can you remember the feel of pleasure or pain or choking emotion?  You can remember only that you had them.  ... Oh, strawberries don't taste as they used to and the thighs of women have lost their clutch!<br />...<br />Our species is the only creative species, and it has only one creative instrument, the individual mind and spirit of a man.  Nothing good was ever created by two men.  There are no good collaborations, whether in music, in art, in poetry, in mathematics, in philosophy.  Once the miracle of creation has taken place, the group can build and extend it, but the group never invents anything.  The preciousness lies in the lonely mind of a man.  ... And this I believe: that the free, exploring mind of the individual is the most valuable thing in the world.  And this I would fight for: the freedom of the mind to take any direction it wishes, undirected.  And this I must fight against: any idea, religion, or government which limits or destroys the individual.<br /><br />[Amazing stuff.  More to come.]
