+++
title = "Excerpts from the week's reading"
date = 2007-07-09T22:55:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:01:35Z
tags = ["Japan", "literature", "finance", "poetry", "economics", "international relations", "East Asia", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

For whom, he thought, that splendor?  For me alone?<br />Yet it will be here long after I perish.<br /><br />-Czeslaw Milosz, from "Study of Loneliness"<br /><br />Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.  Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them; and those who are ill-treated, since you are also in the body.<br /><br />-Hebrews 13:1-3<br /><br />The behavior of individual consumers and producers in the rational pursuit of their objectives is governed by the principle of marginal utility, or marginality.  On the demand side of the economy, according to marginal-utility analysis, as consumers consume more and more of a good they experience diminishing utility; that is, while the first ice cream sundae consumed may be devoured with great pleasure, each additional sundae provides less pleasure (decreasing utility) and the demand of the individual for more sundaes decreases.  ... The one possible exception to the principle of marginal utility, at least for most individuals, is the desire for wealth itself, a desire that appears insatiable.<br /><br />-Robert Gilpin, <em>Global Political Economy</em><br /><br />The sense of belonging that bound the villagers to their village community was reinforced by social and economic factors.  Population movements among the rural population were slight.  Most families had lived in their villages as far back as memory could stretch, and membership in the village was a kind of birthright.  This population stability over generations created a sense of local roots that is now unimaginable in highly mobile American society, where people change jobs and houses at the drop of a hat.<br /><br />-Peter Duus, <em>The Rise of Modern Japan</em><br /><br />Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.<br /><br />-Hebrews 11:1<br /><br />day draws near<br />another one<br />do what you can.<br /><br />-Czeslaw Milosz, from "On Angels"<br /><br />Just because people were diligent did not mean they had to be abstemious.  Enjoyment was not to be repressed, a notion associated with traditional American attitudes toward work and achievement, but rather to be put in its proper place.  The pursuit of pleasure, sexual and otherwise, was regarded as natural and inevitable, to be condemned only when it threatened to put diligence and frugality behind it.  Thus it was possible, as one recent observer has noted, for the Japanese to be Protestant by day and Mediterranean by night, an enviable cultural compromise.<br /><br />-Peter Duus, <em>The Rise of Modern Japan</em>
