+++
title = "Quotes from Randall Jarrell and Knut Hamsun"
date = 2007-10-25T00:45:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:05:31Z
tags = ["poverty", "war", "literature", "poetry", "peace"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

"I lie in my own bed,"<br />He whispers, "dreaming"; and he thinks to wake.<br />The old mistake.<br /><br />--<em>From</em> Randall Jarrell, "A Field Hospital"<br /><br />We read our mail and counted up our missions-<br />In bombers named for girls, we burned<br />The cities we had learned about in school-<br />Till our lives wore out; our bodies lay among<br />The people we had killed and never seen.<br />When we lasted long enough they gave us medals;<br />When we died they said, "Our casualties were low."<br />They said, "Here are the maps"; we burned the cities.<br /><br />--<em>From</em> Randall Jarrell, "Losses"<br /><br />A machine-gun away<br />Are men with our faces.<br /><br />--<em>From </em>Randall Jarrell, "Jews at Haifa"<br /><br />Here too, though death is hushed, though joy<br />Obscures, like night, their wars,<br />The beings of this world are swept<br />By the Strife that moves the stars.<br /><br />--<em>From </em>Randall Jarrell, "The Breath of Night"<br /><br /><em>[Note: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randall_Jarrell">Jarrell</a> was an American control tower operator during World War II.]</em><br /><br />The letter shot through me like a stream of light, and I heard myself give a little cry, a meaningless sound of joy: the letter was from the editor, my piece was accepted, being set in type immediately!  "A few minor changes...a couple of typographical errors corrected...shows real ability...will appear tomorrow...ten kroner."<br /><br />I laughed and cried, leaped in the air and ran down the street, stopped and beat my legs, swore wholesale at no one about nothing.  And time went by.<br /><br />...<br /><br />For a few minutes I didn't have a single sad thought.  I forgot my troubles and felt peaceful looking at the harbor that lay serene and lovely in the dusk.  I had the habit of cheering myself up by reading through the article I had just written, which always seemed to my afflicted brain the very best piece I had done.  I pulled my my manuscript out of my pocket, held it up close to my eyes, and read through one page after the other.  Finally I grew tired and put the papers in my pocket.  Everything was still; the sea stretched away like bluish mother-of-pearl, and small birds flew silently past me, going from one place to another.  A policeman walked up and down a little way off.  Otherwise, not a person could be seen, and the entire harbor was silent.<br /><br />Knut Hamsun<br />  --<em>Hunger</em>
