+++
title = "Excerpts: Jung, Rilke, and Campbell"
date = 2007-11-20T20:02:00Z
updated = 2007-11-20T20:23:30Z
tags = ["C.G. Jung", "Rainer Maria Rilke", "literature", "love", "psychology", "poetry", "mythology", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

The fact that an intellectual formula never has been and never will be devised which could embrace and express the manifest possibilities of life must lead to the inhibition or exclusion of other activities and ways of living that are just as important. ...Doubtless there are exceptional people who are able to sacrifice their entire life to a particular formula, but for most of us such exclusiveness is impossible in the long run. Sooner or later...the potentialities repressed by the intellectual attitude will make themselves indirectly felt by disturbing the conscious conduct of life. ... The first function to be affected by the conscious inhibition is feeling, since it is the most opposed to the rigid intellectual formula and is therefore repressed the most intensely. No function can be entirely eliminated - it can only be greatly distorted.<br /><br />--Jung, "General Descriptions of the Types" in <em>Psychological Types</em><br /><br /><em>From</em> <strong>The Duino Elegies</strong> by Rainer Maria Rilke, tr. Leishman &amp; Spender:<br /><br />...And before<br />A single pain has got within range of your ever-<br />galloping heart, comes the tingling<br />in the soles of your feet, ahead of the spring that it wells from,<br />chasing into your eyes a few physical tears.<br />And, in spite of all, blindly,<br />your smile....<br /><br />--<em>From </em>"The Fifth Elegy"<br /><br />Angel: suppose there's a place we know nothing about, and there,<br />on some indescribable carpet, lovers showed all that here<br />they're for ever unable to manage - their daring<br />lofty figures of heart-flight,<br />their towers of pleasure, their ladders,<br />long since, where ground never was, just quiveringly<br />propped by each other....<br /><br />--<em>From </em>"The Fifth Elegy"<br /><br />Pillars, pylons, the Sphinx, all the striving thrust,<br />grey, from fading or foreign town, of the spire!<br />Wasn't all this a miracle? Angel, gaze, for it's <em>we </em>-<br />O mightiness, tell them that <em>we </em>were capable of it - my breath's<br />too short for this celebration. So, after all, we have <em>not</em><br />failed to make use of the spaces, these generous spaces, these,<br /><em>our </em>spaces. (How terribly big they must be,<br />when, with thousands of years of our feeling, they're not over-crowded.)<br /><br />--<em>From </em>"The Seventh Elegy"<br /><br />The multitude of men and women choose the less adventurous way of the comparatively unconscious civic and tribal routines. But these seekers, too, are saved - by virtue of the inherited symbolic aids of society, the rites of passage, the grace-yielding sacraments, given to manking of old by the redeemers and handed down through milleniums. It is only those who know neither an inner call nor an outer doctrine whose plight truly is desperate: that is to say, most of us today, in this labyrinth without and within the heart.<br /><br />Joseph Campbell<br />--<em>The Hero With a Thousand Faces</em>
