+++
title = "Quotes from David Damrosch, Kahlil Gibran, & Paul Tillich"
date = 2008-03-06T02:52:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:15:38Z
tags = ["literature", "death", "travel", "religion", "solitude"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

Goethe comments that the Church erred in closing the canon of scripture, as God's creative work still continues, notably in the activity of great spirits like Mozart, Raphael, and Shakespeare, "who can draw their lesser contemporaries higher."<br />...<br />For the first time in history, authors of highly successful works can hope to have them translated into twenty or thirty languages within a few years of publication, and foreign countries may even provide the primary readership for writers who have small audiences at home or who are censored by their governments.<br />...<br /><em>All</em> works cease to be the exclusive products of their original culture once they are translated; all become works that only "began" in their original language.<br />...<br />Society melts away in the vast echo chamber of (literary critic Harold) <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harold_Bloom">Bloom</a>'s mind, replaced by the warring voices of the few great titans of the literary universe.  The fewer the better: ...Bloom continually narrows his authors' already narrow circle.  <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1573225142">The Western Canon</a></em> treats twenty-six writers, but what need twenty-six?  "Most simply, the Canon is Plato and Shakespeare" (34).  What need even two?  "At once no one and everyone, nothing and everything, Shakespeare is the Western Canon" (71).<br /><br />Yet even Bloom finally relents.  Having spent almost five hundred pages extolling the greatness of the few greatest writers at the heart of his version of the Western canon, he closes with an appendix listing several <em>thousand</em> works by more than eight hundred and fifty writers whom he considers to be the key figures in the Western canon as a whole.<br /><br />David Damrosch<br />--<em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/What-World-Literature-Translation-Transnation/dp/0691049866/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1204791136&amp;sr=1-1">What is World Literature</a>?</em><br /><br />How shall I go in peace and without sorrow? Nay, not without a wound in the spirit shall I leave this city.  Long were the days of pain I have spent within its walls, and long were the nights of aloneness; and who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?<br /><br />Too many fragments of the spirit have I scattered in these streets, and too many are the children of my longing that walk naked among these hills, and I cannot withdraw from them without a burden and an ache.<br /><br />It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands.  Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst.<br /><br />Yet I cannot tarry longer.  The sea that calls all things unto her calls me, and I must embark.<br />For to stay, though the hours burn in the night, is to freeze and crystallize and be bound in a mould. <br /><br />Fain would I take with me all that is here. But how shall I?  A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that give it wings. Alone must it seek the ether.  And alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun.<br /><br />Kahlil Gibran<br />--<em>The Prophet</em><br /><br />Sociological analyses of the present period have pointed to the importance of anxiety as a group phenomenon.  Literature and art have made anxiety a main theme of their creations, in content as well as in style.  The effect of this has been the awakening of at least the educated groups to an awareness of their own anxiety, and a permeation of the public consciousness by ideas and symbols of anxiety.<br />...<br />The first assertion about the nature of anxiety is this: anxiety is the state in which a being is aware of its possible nonbeing.  ...It is not the realization of universal transitoriness, not even the experience of the death of others, but the impression of these events on the always latent awareness of our own having to die that produces anxiety.  Anxiety is finitude, experienced as one's own finitude.<br /><br />Paul Tillich<br />--<em>The Courage to Be</em><br /><em></em>
