+++
title = "For many in Chicago, driving is a necessity, not a luxury"
date = 2009-06-13T23:32:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:59:43Z
tags = ["work", "business", "economics", "Chicago", "personal", "transportation"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

My most recent op-ed, "<a href="http://www.chicagobusiness.com/cgi-bin/mag/article.pl?articleId=32083">For us, Mr. Daley, driving to work is a necessity, not a vice</a>" (registration required) was published today on <a href="http://www.chicagobusiness.com/">Chicagobusiness.com</a> and will appear in this week's issue of <em>Crain's Chicago Business</em>.  You can find the article <a href="http://www.chicagobusiness.com/">here</a> as well as reprinted below:<br /><br />---<br /><br /><strong>For us, Mr. Daley, driving to work is a necessity, not a vice</strong><br /><br /><em>Ryan McCarl</em><br /><br />It is exceedingly difficult for many commuters living on the North Side to find free parking after they return from work. After an often agonizing rush-hour commute, they must circle around their neighborhood until they find a parking space; if they arrive too late, they must choose between parking at a meter and interrupting their lives every two hours to feed it, or parking a mile or more away from their homes.<br /><br />But if the North Side parking situation is a nightmare today, imagine what it will look like when the city installs meters along the entire lakefront, effectively eliminating a major artery of free parking.<br /><br />I commute every workday between my apartment near Belmont Avenue in East Lakeview and Hyde Park. If I drive, I spend around 50 minutes per day, including time spent finding parking, on the road. If I take public transportation, the same round trip can take as long as three hours. That adds an extra two hours to my workday, significantly reducing my time for leisure, exercise, relationships and everything else that is important in life.<br /><br />In short, for me and for many other commuters, driving is essential to maintaining a high quality of life in Chicago.<br /><br />Many users of the free lakefront spots are commuters who do not have access to, cannot afford or choose not to purchase a space in a garage or a residential street parking permit. These commuters, like myself, look for free spots to park in overnight.<br /><br />The new lakefront meters, which are scheduled to be in place by the fall, will mean that thousands of drivers will be competing for far fewer free spaces. Many commuters will spend more frustrated and stressful time on the road driving in circles in search of parking. Some will resort to paying an outrageous price to park in a garage. Others will give up driving and double or triple their commuting time by turning to public transit.<br /><br />For many Chicagoans, driving to work — and finding free or affordable parking after work — is a necessity, not a luxury. Contrary to the inclinations of Mayor Richard M. Daley and the city, it is not a vice that ought to be subject to endless taxation and fees.<br /><br />By significantly reducing the availability of free parking in lakefront neighborhoods without creating affordable alternatives for commuters, the new meters will make much of the city more expensive and inconvenient for everyone, including working families. They may boost the city's revenue, but they will do so at the direct expense of the well-being and quality of life of thousands of its residents.<br /><br />---<br />Ryan McCarl is a freelance writer.  He has an M.A. in International Relations from the University of Chicago, and he maintains a blog at http://ryanmccarl.blogspot.com.
