+++
title = "Quotes and poems by Goethe, Coleridge, and A. Daniel"
date = 2008-03-04T02:55:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:22:41Z
tags = ["friendship", "literature", "love", "loneliness", "poetry", "solitude"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I am more and more convinced that poetry is the universal possession of mankind...the epoch of world literature is at hand, and everyone must strive to hasten its approach.<br /><br />--Goethe (quoted in Damrosch, <em>What is World Literature?</em>)<br /><br /><strong>White Towels</strong><br /><br />I have been studying the difference<br />between solitude and loneliness,<br />telling the story of my life<br />to the clean white towels taken warm from the dryer.<br />I carry them through the house<br />as though they were my children<br />asleep in my arms.<br /><br />--Richard Jones<br /><strong></strong><br /><strong><em>From </em>Canzone XII</strong><br /><strong></strong><br />May God, the Chosen, by whom were absolved the sins of the blind Longinus, wish if it please him, that I and my lady lie within one chamber where we shall make a rich covenant, whereon great joy attendeth; where, with laughter and caresses, she shall disclose to me her fair body, with the glamor of the lamplight about it.<br /><br />--Arnaut Daniel (tr. Ezra Pound)<br /><strong></strong><br /><strong>Duty Surviving Self-Love</strong><br /><br />Unchanged within, to see all changed without,<br />Is a blank lot and hard to bear, no doubt.<br />Yet why at others' wanings should'st thou fret ?<br />Then only might'st thou feel a just regret,<br />Hadst thou withheld thy love or hid thy light<br />In selfish forethought of neglect and slight.<br />O wiselier then, from feeble yearnings freed,<br />While, and on whom, thou may'st--shine on! nor heed<br />Whether the object by reflected light<br />Return thy radiance or absorb it quite :<br />And tho' thou notest from thy safe recess<br />Old Friends burn dim, like lamps in noisome air,<br />Love them for what they are ; nor love them less,<br />Because to thee they are not what they were.<br /><br />--Samuel Taylor Coleridge<br /><br /><strong><em>From </em>Canzone III</strong><br /><br />But when I consider how she is the summit of worth, much do I love myself the more for having ever dared to desire her, for now do I know that my heart and my wit will make me to make to their whim a rich conquest.<br />...<br />And since she is of such worth, do not think that my firm will can disperse itself or flow away or divide, for by that God who manifested himself in the dove, I am neither mine nor hers if I leave her.<br /><br />--Arnaut Daniel (tr. Ezra Pound)
