+++
title = "Quotes from Hermann Hesse's 'Beneath the Wheel'"
date = 2008-03-15T22:02:00Z
updated = 2008-03-15T22:53:18Z
tags = ["literature", "education", "languages", "Hermann Hesse"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

Mathematics, as far as he was concerned, was a Sphinx charged with deceitful puzzles whose cold malicious gaze transfixed her victims, and he gave the monster a wide berth.<br />...<br />What would many happy citizens and trustworthy officials have become but unruly, stormy innovators and dreamers of useless dreams, if not for the effort of their schools?  In young beings there is something wild, ungovernable, uncultured which first has to be tamed.  It is like a dangerous flame that has to be controlled or it will destroy.  Natural man is unpredictable, opaque, dangerous, like a torrent cascading out of uncharted mountains.  At the start, his soul is a jungle without paths or order.  And, like a jungle, it must first be cleared and its growth thwarted.  Thus it is the school's task to subdue and control man with force and make him a useful member of society, to kindle those qualities in him whose development will bring him to triumphant completion.<br />...<br />For he was aware that in the academy he would have to be even more ambitious if he wanted to outstrip his new fellow students.  Why did he want to surpass them actually?  He didn't really know himself.<br />...<br />This magnificent monastery, hidden behind hills and woods, has long been reserved for the exclusive use of the students of the Protestant Theological Academy in order that their receptive young spirits will be surrounded by an atmosphere of beauty and grace.  Simultaneously the young people are removed from the distracting influence of their towns and families and are preserved from the harmful sight of the active life.  So it is possible to let them live under the definite impression that their life's goal consists exclusively of the study of Hebrew and Greek and sundry subjects and to turn the thirst of young souls toward pure and ideal studies and enjoyments.<br />...<br />If someone else were to approach him and vigorously seek to win his friendship, he would respond gladly.  Like a wallflower he stayed in the background waiting for someone to fetch him, someone more courageous and stronger than himself to tear him away and force him into happiness.<br /><br />Hermann Hesse<br /> --<span style="font-style: italic;">Beneath the Wheel<br /><br /></span>
