+++
title = "More poems & fragments by Anna Akhmatova"
date = 2007-07-08T17:16:00Z
updated = 2007-07-08T17:27:50Z
tags = ["literature", "love", "poetry"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

You will hear thunder and remember me,<br />And think: she wanted storms. The rim<br />Of the sky will be the colour of hard crimson,<br />And your heart, as it was then, will be on fire.<br /><br />That day in Moscow, it will all come true,<br />When, for the last time, I take my leave,<br />And hasten to the heights I have longed for,<br />Leaving my shadow still to be with you.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Black and enduring separation<br />I share equally with you.<br />Why weep? Give me your hand,<br />Promise me you will come again.<br />You and I are like high<br />Mountains and we can't move closer.<br />Just send me word<br />At midnight sometime through the stars.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Everything is looted, spoiled, despoiled,<br />Death flickering his black wing,<br />Anguish, hunger - then why this<br />Lightness overlaying everything?<br /><br />By day, cherry-scent from an unknown<br />Wood near the town.  July<br />holding new constellations, deep<br />At night in the transparent sky -<br /><br />Nearer to filthy ruined houses<br />Flies the miraculous...<br />Nobody has ever known it,<br />This, always so dear to us.<br /><br />...<br /><br />I won't beg for your love: it's laid<br />Safely to rest, let the earth settle...<br />Don't expect my jealous letters<br />Pouring in to plague your bride.<br />But let me, nevertheless, advise you:<br />Give her my poems to read in bed,<br />Give her my portraits to keep - it's wise to<br />Be kind like that when newly-wed.<br />For it's more needful to such geese<br />To know that they have won completely<br />Than to have converse light and sweet or<br />Honeymoons of remembered bliss...<br />When you have spent your kopeck's worth<br />Of happiness with your new friend,<br />And like a taste that sates the mouth<br />Your soul has recognized the end -<br />Don't come crawling like a whelp<br />Into my bed of loneliness.<br />I don't know you.  Nor could I help.<br />I'm not yet cured of happiness.<br /><br />...<br /><br />I know the gods changed people into things,<br />Leaving their consciousness alive and free.<br />To keep alive the wonder of suffering,<br />You have been metamorphosed into me.
