+++
title = "Poems & fragments from Hopkins, Yeats, Housman, and Hardy"
date = 2007-06-18T21:44:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T20:46:19Z
tags = ["literature", "poetry", "Iraq War", "peace", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<span style="font-weight: bold;">When You Are Old</span><br /><br />When you are old and grey and full of sleep,<br />And nodding by the fire, take down this book,<br />And slowly read, and dream of the soft look<br />Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep;<br /><br />How many loved your moments of glad grace,<br />And loved your beauty with love false or true,<br />But one man loved the pilgrim soul in you,<br />And loved the sorrows of your changing face;<br /><br />And bending down beside the glowing bars,<br />Murmur, a little sadly, how Love fled<br />And paced upon the mountains overhead<br />And hid his face amid a crowd of stars.<br /><br />-<span style="font-style: italic;">William Butler Yeats</span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;"><br />From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord</span><br /><br />Mine, O thou lord of life, send my roots rain.<br /><br />-Gerald Manley Hopkins<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;"></span><span style="font-weight: bold;"><span style="font-weight: bold;">Into My Heart</span></span><br /><br />Into my heart an air that kills<br />From yon far country blows:<br />What are those blue remembered hills,<br />What spires, what farms are those?<br /><br />That is the land of lost content,<br />I see it shining plain,<br />The happy highways where I went<br />And cannot come again.<br /><br />-<span style="font-style: italic;">A.E. Housman</span><span style="font-weight: bold;"><span style="font-weight: bold;"></span><br /></span><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From</span> <span style="font-weight: bold;">Channel Firing</span><br /><br />The world is as it used to be:<br />All nations striving strong to make<br />Red war yet redder.<br /><br />-<span style="font-style: italic;">Thomas Hardy</span><br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From </span><span style="font-weight: bold;">No Worst, There is None</span><br /><br />Comforter, where, where is your comforting?<br /><br />Gerald Manley Hopkins<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">From</span> <span style="font-weight: bold;">God's Grandeur</span><br /><br />The world is charged with the grandeur of God.  ...<br />And though the last lights off the black West went<br />Oh, morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs -<br />Because the Holy Ghost over the bent<br />World broods with warm breast and with ah! bright wings.
