+++
title = "Quotes from Edward Abbey and John Cheever"
date = 2009-06-18T00:19:00Z
updated = 2009-06-18T00:32:39Z
tags = ["pessimism", "literature", "Edward Abbey", "John Cheever", "aging", "youth", "environment"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

We make the coffee with river water, dipping a canful from among the rocks and letting it set for a time until the silt settles to the bottom.  For entertainment we have the murmur of the river, the drone of cicada and amphibians, the show of nighthawks plunging through the evening gulping bugs.  Afterwards we sit by the fire until the fire gives out, listening, smoking, analyzing socioeconomic problems:<br /><br />"Look here, Newcombe," I say, "do you think it's fitting that you and I should be here in the wilds, risking our lives amidst untold hardships, while our wives nad loved ones lounge at their ease back in Albuquerque, enjoying the multifold comforts, benefits and luxuries of modern contemporary twentieth century American urban civilization?"<br /><br />"Yes," he says.<br /><br />Edward Abbey<br />  --<em>Desert Solitaire</em><br /><br />The light there was like a blow, and the air smelled as if many wonderful girls had just wandered across the lawn.<br /><br />John Cheever<br />  --"The Common Day"<br /><br />I had already put on the football uniform, and the weight of it, the heaviness of the pants and the shoulder guards, had worked a change in me, as if in putting on these old clothes I had put off the reasonable anxieties and troubles of my life.  It felt as if we had both returned to the years before our marriage, the years before thew war.<br />...<br />Chucky Ewing had got hold of a balloon and was trying to organize a scrimmage line in the middle of the floor.  The others were dancing a samba.  And I knew that Lawrence was looking bleakly at the party as he had looked at the weather-beaten shingles on our house, as if he saw here an abuse and a distortion of time; as if in wanting to be brides and football players we exposed the fact that, the lights of youth having been put out in us, we had been unable to find other lights to go by and, destitute of faith and principle, had become foolish and sad.  And that he was thinking this about so many kind and happy and generous people had me angry, made me feel for him such an unnatural abhorrence that I was ashamed, for he is my brother and a Pommeroy.<br /><br />John Cheever<br />  -"Goodbye, My Brother"
