+++
title = "Excerpts from Laxness' 'Independent People'"
date = 2008-12-27T21:05:00Z
updated = 2008-12-31T01:07:19Z
tags = ["freedom", "nature", "perseverance", "literature", "dogs", "love", "economics", "Halldor Laxness", "Iceland", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

From Brad Leithauser's introduction to Halldor Laxness' novel <em>Independent People</em>: "There are good books and there are great books and there may be a book that is something still more: it is the book of your life. ...One looks differently on the book of genius that, even in a long bookworm's life, one might not have stumbled upon."<br /><br />Excerpts:<br /><br /><span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-size: small;">But higher than all dealers and societies stand the dreams of the heart, especially in the autumn when dusk is falling and the clouds of the world are full of marvellous pictures....Oh, that it may never end; that it might live on to eternity in the restless splendour of its color. And thus night after night she sat watching the silent music of the clouds.<br />...<br />This was the first time that her soul was charmed by the power of poetry, which shows us the lot of man so truthfully and so sympathetically and with so much love for that which is good that we ourselves become better persons and understand life more fully than before, and hope and trust that good may always prevail in the life of man.<br />...<br />The varied life implicit in all this noise affected the bewildered child with a sad sense of her own isolation, her own insignificance; she stood outside the boundaries of life.<br />...<br />His being had rested full of adoration for the glory which unifies all distances in such beauty and sorrow that one no longer wishes for anything - in inconquerable adversity, in unquenchable longing, he felt that life had nevertheless been worth living.<br />...<br />When life is a weariness and escape impossible, it is wonderful to have a friend who can bring us peace with the touch of a hand.<br />...<br />Presently the smell of coffee began to fill the room. This was morning's hallowed moment. In such a fragrance the perversity of the world is forgotten and the soul is inspired with faith in the future; when all was said and done, it was probably true that there really were far-off places, even foreign countries.<br />...<br />Few things are so inconstant, so unstable, as a loving heart, and yet it is the only place in the world where one can find sympathy.<br />...<br />No one will ever be able to say that Bjartur of Summerhouses ever got the worst of it in his world war with the country's spectres, no matter how often he might tumble over a precipice or roll head over heels down a gully - "while there's a breath left in my nostrils, it will never keep me down, however hard it blows."<br />...<br />She lay like this for a long time, still quivering and still with a pain in her heart; no memories could comfort her any longer, terror is stronger than the total sum of anyone's happiness. She tried to think with hope of the far-off dawn, for human beings always seek some source of consolation; it is this search for consolation, even when every retreat is obviously cut off, that proves that one is still alive.<br />...<br />But the high heath had also a value for this man other than the practical and the economic. It was his spiritual mother, his church, his better world, as the ocean must inevitably be to the seafarer. When he walked along over the moors on the clear, frosty days of late autumn, when he ran his eyes over the desert's pathless range and felt the cold clean breeze of the mountains on his face, then he too would prove the substance of patriotic song.<br />...<br />He gazed out the window for a while, without accounting for the trend of his thought, staring in silence towards the mountain.<br />...<br />For you are all of the same high birth: God's children all of you.<br />...<br />Take my word for it, freedom is of more account than the height of a roof beam.<br />...<br />Yes, whatever a man seeks he will find - in his dog.</span>
