+++
title = "Quotes from Thomas Merton and John Steinbeck"
date = 2007-07-30T19:02:00Z
updated = 2007-07-30T19:20:38Z
tags = ["Montana", "Steinbeck", "loneliness", "happiness", "travel", "Thomas Merton", "America", "religion", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

Living is more than submission: it is creation.  To live is to create one's own world as a scene of personal happiness.<br /><br />-Thomas Merton, "The Street is For Celebration"<br /><br />Celebration is the beginning of confidence, therefore of power.<br /><br />-Thomas Merton, "The Street is For Celebration"<br /><br />The next passage in my journey is a love affair.  I am in love with Montana.  For other states I have admiration, respect, recognition, even some affection, but with Montana it is love, and it's difficult to analyze love when you're in it.  ... It seems to me that Montana is a great splash of grandeur.  The scale is huge but not overpowering.  The land is rich with grass and color, and the mountains are the kind I would create if mountains were ever put on my agenda.<br />...<br />The calm of the mountains and the rolling grasslands had got into the inhabitants.  It was hunting season when I drove through the state.  The men I talked to seemed to me not moved to a riot of seasonal slaughter but simply to be going out to kill edible meat.  Again my attitude may be informed by love, but it seemed to me that the towns were places to live in rather than nervous hives.  People had time to pause in their occupations to undertake the passing art of neighborliness.<br /><br />-John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br />When we live superficially, when we are always outside ourselves, never quite "with" ourselves, always divided and pulled in many directions by conflicting plans and projects, we find ourselves doing many things that we do not really want to do, saying things we do not really mean, needing things we do not really need, exhausting ourselves for what we secretly realize to be worthless and without meaning in our lives: "Why spend your money on what is not food and your earnings on what never satisfies?" (Isaiah 55:2)<br /><br />-Thomas Merton, "Creative Silence"<br /><br />Having a companion fixes you in time and that the present, but when the quality of aloneness settles down, past, present, and future all flow together.  A memory, a present event, and a forecast all equally present.<br /><br />-John Steinbeck, <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br />In the long run, the discipline of creative silence demands a certain kind of faith.  For when we come face to face with ourselves in the lonely ground of our own being, we confront many questions about the value of our existence, the reality of our commitments, the authenticity of our everyday lives.<br /><br />-Thomas Merton, "Creative Silence"
