+++
title = "Quotes from the week's reading, part 2"
date = 2007-08-31T12:34:00Z
updated = 2007-08-31T12:59:26Z
tags = ["war", "poetry", "Iraq War", "economics", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

As we would expect, during most wars consumer spending is deliberately held back by heavy taxes to make room for swelling military expenditure.  During World War II, for example, consumption was squeezed back by heavy taxes to barely more than half of GDP.  …During the Vietnam War military expenses for that conflict were not compensated by taxes to roll back consumption and the excess demand for goods and services ignited a subsequent inflation. <br /><br /><em>[Question: Could this happen today, given that the U.S. government is spending over $2 billion each week in Iraq?]</em><br /><br />--Robert Heilbroner and Lester Thurow, Economics Explained<br /><br /><em>From </em><strong>Six Years Later</strong><br /><br />So long had life together been that now<br />The second of January fell again<br />On Tuesday, making her astonished brow<br />Lift like a windshield-wiper in the rain,<br />So that her misty sadness cleared, and showed<br />A cloudless distance waiting up the road.<br /><br /><em>Joseph Brodsky</em>, tr. Richard Wilbur<br /><br />Can we still believe at all?  Or rather - for the question must be posed in a more radical fashion - is it still permissible to believe?  Have we not a duty to break with the dream and face reality?  The Christian of today must ask himself this question: he is not at liberty to remain satisfied with finding out that by all kinds of twists and turns an interpretation of Christianity can still be found that no longer offends anybody.  When some theologian explains that "the resurrection of the dead" simply means that one must cheerfully set about the work of the future afresh every day, offense is certainly avoided.  But are we then really still being honest?<br /><br />--Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (Pope Benedict XVI), <em>Introduction to Christianity</em><br /><br />Those societies that adapt themselves to the requirements of economic growth and technological innovation in a particular epoch become the economic leaders of that epoch, and societies that do not or cannot adjust to such requirements fall behind.<br /><br />--Robert Gilpin, <em>Global Political Economy</em><br /><br />Can the mathematician who looks at the world mathematically find anything else but mathematics in the universe?  Should not one rather ask him whether he has not himself at some time or other looked at the world in a way that is other than mathematical?  Whether, for example, he has never seen an apple tree in blossom and wondered why the process of fertilization by the interplay between bees and trees is not affected otherwise than through the roundabout way of the blossom, thus including the completely superfluous wonder of beauty...?<br />...<br />Yet the man who seeks a view of the whole will have to say: In the world we find present, without doubt, objective mathematics; but we also find equally present in the world unparalleled and unexplained wonders of beauty, or, to be more accurate, there are events that appear to the apprehending mind of man in the form of beauty, so that he is bound to say that the mathematician responsible for these events has displayed an unparalleled degree of creative imagination.<br /><br />--Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger (Pope Benedict XVI), <em>Introduction to Christianity</em>
