+++
title = "Quotes from Jim Harrison's 'True North'"
date = 2008-02-05T15:06:00Z
updated = 2008-02-05T16:08:01Z
tags = ["nature", "war", "work", "love", "Michigan", "environment", "religion"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

The main feature of the Kingston Plains was the thousands of acres of white pine stumps, some of them very large, which had been cut at waist or chest height probably during the winter when it was easier to skid the trees out on snow-covered trails which they dampened to form ice so that the draft horse-drawn log sleighs could be more easily pulled. ...I swiveled around until I had completed a 360-degree view, suppressing any anger I felt over the idea that they might have left a few trees for those in the future to look at. Maybe to try to imagine the trees was like asking a contemporary Lakota to imagine a million buffalo.<br />...<br />It occurred to me that you could explain everything away but the behavior remained.<br />...<br />Frankly I wanted to be useful in this life and that could be defined only by work, not good intentions.<br />...<br />I felt absurdly happy when I entered Michigan just north of Toledo, though I was already lonely for Riva.<br />...<br />Being at the university through the deaths of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. ending with the more recent Kent State butchery had often made academic studies seem problematical and remote. How upsetting to see your professor break down in tears in your Chaucer class the day after King was murdered. My return to religion was a defense against the insanity of the time, a way to avoid standing there simply screaming like the girl in the famous Kent State photograph. I recalled the day when I was a junior at Michigan State and Cynthia had called to say that she had heard our ex-paper boy had died in Vietnam. He was a poor kid and never seemed dressed warmly enough in winter when below-zero winds blew in off Lake Superior. ...He put a face on an insane war.<br />...<br />How soiled and tawdry poor Jesus was compared to the theological school where the self-interest of the human intelligence smothered prayer, and the abstractions in the history of theology were a virtual fire extinguisher on the Gospels.<br />...<br />Every location has its classic Greek chorus muttering, chattering, moaning in the background.<br />...<br />Fred says that when he sees a politician who has further crushed the poor pray in public he wants to pick up a gun.<br />...<br />I was cold and exhausted and went back to the motel room, drew an easy chair up to the window, then fell asleep staring at the frightening whiteness of the world. It was clearly a blank canvas on which you could paint your life if you cared to. Just before sleep I imagined sitting at the cabin window and painted the interior of what would be my cabin, including the front window from which the only visible thing was Lake Superior and the line of the horizon, but there was the nagging idea Fred had explained that as a putative Christian I had to learn how to function in the world before I earned the right to retreat.<br />...<br />We were jittery when we rigged our fly rods and flipped a coin for the first cast. Glenn won and caught a two-pounder and then it became apparent that the fish weren't gun-shy so we could both cast. We caught a dozen before dark and released all but two which we kept for a midnight snack and ate with a six-pack of beer Glenn had stowed in the cold creek. The northern lights were astounding, whirling sheets and cones of rose and green and bluish lights so strong they gave off a tinny metallic sound.<br />...<br />Naturally during the act of love you're undisturbed by reality, a grace note I also found in trout fishing, but then lovemaking and fishing don't manage to dominate your life like you wished they could.<br />...<br />We gave up our heavy talk and spent two days rowing. In my own life strength has come from unfolding, subtracting, rather than adding.<br />...<br />Clarence said a striking thing about rowing that I've always valued, the upshot of which was that he liked rowing because you were approaching life backward. You could clearly see the past, and you glanced quickly at the future over your shoulder mostly so you wouldn't run into anything destructively immovable. Too much of the future was predestined by the behavior of others for you to be in control. The most you could hope for is to be ready and attentive.<br /><br />Jim Harrison<br />--<em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/True-North-Jim-Harrison/dp/0802142060/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1202245476&amp;sr=8-2">True North</a></em><br /><br /><em>(I picked up</em> True North<em> at the Dawn Treader Book Shop (one of my favorites) in Ann Arbor, MI yesterday, and it has sucked me in and engrossed me in a way that hasn't happened in awhile.  I read 50 pages in one sitting last night and another 150 pages on the train from Ann Arbor to Chicago this morning.  I don't know how it ends yet, but it's highly recommended.)</em><br /><em></em>
