+++
title = "Poems and fragments from yesterday's reading"
date = 2007-06-01T13:46:00Z
updated = 2007-06-01T14:18:51Z
tags = ["literature", "poetry"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

<strong>To You</strong><br /><em><br /></em>Stranger, if you passing meet me and desire to speak to me,<br />why should you not speak to me?<br />And why should I not speak to you?<br /><em><br />Walt Whitman</em><br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>Non Sum Qualis Eram Bonae Sub Regno Cynarae</strong><br /><em>[The days when Cynara was queen will not return for me --Catullus]</em><br /><br />I cried for madder music and for stronger wine,<br />But when the feast is finished and the lamps expire,<br />Then falls thy shadow, Cynara! the night is thine.<br /><br /><em>Ernest Dowson</em><br /><br /><em>From </em><strong>The Hound of Heaven</strong><br /><br />Across the margent of the world I fled,<br />And troubled the gold gateways of the stars,<br />Smiting for shelter on their clangèd bars.<br /><br /><em>Francis Thompson</em><br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>You Who Never Arrived</strong><br /><strong></strong><br />You, Beloved, who are all<br />the gardens I have ever gazed at,<br />longing. An open window<br />in a country house-, and you almost<br />stepped out, pensive, to meet me.<br />Streets that I chanced upon,-<br />you had just walked down them and vanished.<br />And sometimes, in a shop, the mirrors<br />were still dizzy with your presence and, startled,<br />gave back my too-sudden image. Who knows?<br />perhaps the same bird echoed through both of us<br />yesterday, seperate, in the evening...<br /><br /><em>Rainer Maria Rilke</em> <em>(translated by Stephen Mitchell)</em><br /><em></em><br /><em>From </em><strong>Thus Piteously Love Closed</strong><br /><br />Ah, what a dusty answer gets the soul<br />When hot for certainties in this our life!<br /><br /><em>George Meredith</em><br /><br /><strong>After Great Pain a Formal Feeling Comes</strong><br /><br />After great pain, a formal feeling comes--<br />The nerves sit ceremonious, like tombs;<br />The stiff Heart questions-- was it He that bore?<br />And yesterday-- or centuries before?<br /><br />The feet mechanical<br />Go round a wooden way<br />Of Ground or Air or Ought, regardless grown,<br />A quartz contentment like a stone.<br /><br />This is the hour of lead<br />Remembered if outlived,<br />As freezing persons recollect the snow--<br />First chill, then stupor, then the letting go.<br /><br /><em>Emily Dickinson</em><br /><em></em><br /><strong>Invictus</strong><br /><em></em><br />Out of the night that covers me<br />Black as the Pit from pole to pole<br />I thank whatever gods may be<br />For my unconquerable soul.<br /><br />In the fell clutch of circumstance<br />I have not winced nor cried aloud<br />Under the bludgeonings of chance<br />My head is bloody but unbowed.<br /><br />Beyond this place of wrath and tears<br />Looms but the horror of the shade<br />And yet the menace of the years<br />Finds and shall find me unafraid.<br /><br />It matters not how strait the gate<br />How charged with punishment the scroll<br />I am the Master of my fate<br />I am the Captain of my soul.<br /><br /><em>William Earnest Henley</em><br /><em></em><br />(Most of the poems are from Oscar Williams, ed., <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/POCKET-BOOK-MODERN-VERSE-AMERICAN/dp/B000HLMH3U/ref=sr_1_1/105-4823319-5107600?ie=UTF8&s=books&amp;qid=1180721132&amp;sr=8-1">A Pocket Book of Modern Verse</a></em>. Highly recommended.)
