+++
title = "Bruce Cumings' 'Korea's Place in the Sun'"
date = 2007-04-17T15:06:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:24:02Z
tags = ["Korea", "history", "international relations", "East Asia", "university of chicago"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I finally finished University of Chicago professor Bruce Cumings' <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Koreas-Place-Sun-History-Updated/dp/0393327027/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/103-2504500-4922224?ie=UTF8&s=books&amp;qid=1176836960&sr=8-1">Korea's Place in the Sun</a></em> yesterday, and I give it the highest recommendation to anyone remotely interested in history. Even if you are not specifically interested in Korea or East Asia, this is one of those books that can transform your ideas about warfare, America's role in the world, international relations, and history itself. It certainly had an enormous impact on my way of thinking about these things.<br /><br /><em>Korea's Place in the Sun</em> is a "modern history" of Korea, and it spends most of its 500 pp. discussing Korea's 20th century history from the Japanese occupation (1905-1945) to the present day. Cumings persuasively argues that everything you have been taught about Korea and the Korean War (1950-51) is either wrong, lopsided, or inadequate.<br /><br />Did you know, for example:<br /><br />-Many Koreans, especially in the South and in the police force, collaborated with the Japanese occupation and fought against their countrymen for the Japanese. These Koreans later became the core of the U.S.-supported South Korean (Republic of Korea, or ROK) government.<br /><br />-The Japanese empire forced many Korean laborers to relocate to Japan in the years before 1945 to build an underground imperial palace (in case of an American invasion) and to work in war factories. At least 10,000 of these Koreans were killed by the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Those who survived the blasts were ostracized in Korea and not welcomed into Korean or Japanese society.<br /><br />-On August 10, 1945, U.S. colonels Dean Rusk and Charles Bonesteel spent 30 minutes or less looking at a map of Korea before deciding to divide it in two at the 38th parallel.<br /><br />-There was no clear aggressor in the Korean War, and neither the North nor the South acknowledged the legitimacy of the 38th parallel as an international border. Both sides wanted war.<br /><br />-The U.S. occupied Korea between 1945-1948, during which time it chose to side with the elite minority of landowners in South Korea in the belief that the demand for land reform - universal among the peasantry - smacked of communism. "Within one week Americans in Seoul, who had never met a Korean, decided they knew which Korean political leaders they liked," Cumings writes. Unfortunately, most of the elite minority with which the U.S. sided was tainted by collaboration with the Japanese colonizers. A State Department official wrote to Washington: "Korea is completely ripe for agitators.... The most encouraging single factor in the political situation is the presence in Seoul of several hundred conservatives among the older and better educated Koreans. Although many of them have served the Japanese, that stigma ought eventually to disappear."<br /><br />-To summarize the most important point in the book: The U.S. intervened on the side of the elite of Korean society, "nearly all of whom were widely perceived to have fattened under colonial rule while everybody else suffered." This elite was "the smallest group in Korea."<br /><br />-The U.S. considered using atomic weapons against the North from the very first days of the Korean War and during several crises that arose after the armistice that ended the war. "All sides of the war were guilty of atrocities," but the U.S. bombings from the air - directed by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curtis_Lemay">Curtis LeMay</a>, the mass-murderer responsible for the firebombings of Japan in WWII - were the most devastating aspect of the Korean War. "By 1952 just about everything in northern and central Korea was completely leveled. What was left of the population survived in caves, the North Koreans creating an entire life underground, in complexes of dwellings, schools, hospitals, and factories." Most horrible of all was the decision to bomb the North's irrigation dams, which "provided water for 75 percent of the North's food production." The destruction of the dams led to the mass starvation of peasants completely unconnected with the war or the politics behind it, people who knew nothing of "containment" or "communism."<br /><br />-Following the Korean War, North Korea became a left-wing dictatorship under Kim il Sung and his son Kim Jong Il, and it remains so today. South Korea became a right-wing dictatorship under Syngman Rhee and his successors, and it did not become a democracy until 1997. The democratization process in South Korea was significantly slowed by U.S. policies that coddled the South Korean dictators; several pro-democracy demonstrations and uprisings were put down by the ROK regime using American-supplied tear gas and other weaponry, sometimes resulting in death tolls that rivaled the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre in China.<br /><br />...<br /><br />I could go on, but that's enough for now. Everyone who studies history and has opinions about politics and warfare should go out of their way to study Korea's experience in the past century. This history is a sad tale of <em>avoidable</em> tragedies.
