+++
title = "East of Eden quotes, part II"
date = 2007-06-07T10:42:00Z
updated = 2007-06-07T11:23:17Z
tags = ["literature", "Steinbeck", "religion", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I finished John Steinbeck's <span style="font-style: italic;">East of Eden</span> yesterday, and it immediately became one of my favorite novels - joining the good company of <span style="font-style: italic;">The Brothers Karamazov</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Anna Karenina</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">War and Peace</span>, and <span style="font-style: italic;">The Great Gatsby</span>, among others.  It is a story of the great tragedies that befall two generations of the Trask and Hamilton families in California's Salinas Valley in the years leading up to and including World War I.  As in any great novel, its themes are far larger than any particular time or place: death and rebirth, grief and recovery, family and home, wealth and ethics, racism, love and lust, greatness and mediocrity.  It's a big book, but we should be grateful for that because it makes the story last longer.  It is a hopeful manual for living that makes the world a bit bigger and clearer for those who take the time to read it.<br /><br />Here is a second batch of quotes:<br />...<br /><br />And Samuel could remember hearing of a cousin of his mother's in Ireland, a knight and rich and handsome, and anyway shot himself on a silken couch, sitting beside the most beautiful woman in the world who loved him.  "There's a capacity for appetite," Samuel said, "that a whole heaven and earth of cake can't satisfy."<br />...<br />A kind of light spread out from her.  And everything changed color.  And the world opened out.  And a day was good to awaken to.  And there were no limits to anything.  And the people of the world were good and handsome.  And I was not afraid any more.<br />...<br />You can start reading if you want and it will raise up your lid a little.<br />...<br />"I don't want advice."<br />"Nobody does.  It's a giver's present.  Go through the motions, Adam."<br />"What motions?"<br />"Act out being alive, like a play.  And after a while, a long while, it will be true."<br />...<br />And finally comes culture, which is entertainment, relaxation, transport out of the pain of living.  And culture can be on any level, and is.<br /><br />The church and the whorehouse arrived in the Far West simultaneously.  And each would have been horrified to think it was a different facet of the same thing.  But surely they were both intended to accomplish the same thing: the singing, the devotion, the poetry of churches took a man out of his bleakness for a time, and so did the brothels. ... Indeed, if after hearing the ecstatic shrieks of climactic conversion against the thumping beat of the melodeon you had stood under the window of a whorehouse and listened to low decorous voices, you would have been likely to confuse the identities of the two ministries.<br />...<br />Samuel wrote to Joe, saying, "I would have been disappointed if you had not become an atheist, and I read pleasantly that you have, in your age and wisdom, accepted agnosticism the way you'd take a cookie on a full stomach.  But I would ask you with all my understanding heart not to try to convert your mother.  Your last letter only made her think you are not well.  Your mother does not believe there are many ills uncurable by good strong soup.  She puts your brave attack on the structure of our civilization down to a stomach ache.  It worries her.  Her faith is a mountain, and you, my son, haven't even got a shovel yet."<br />...<br />No story has power, nor will it last, unless we feel in ourselves that it is true and true of us.<br />...<br />Lee said, "Remember, Mr. Hamilton, I told you I was trying to translate some old Chinese poetry into English?  ...Doing it, I found some of the old things as fresh and clear as this morning.  And I wondered why.  And, of course, people are only interested in themselves.  If a story is not about the hearer he will not listen.  And I here make a rule - a great and lasting story is about everyone or it will not last.  The strange and foreign is not interesting - only the deeply personal and familiar."<br />...<br />"Why didn't you want the boys to learn Chinese, Adam?"<br /><br />Adam thought for a moment.  "It seems a time for honesty," he said at last.  "I guess it was plain jealousy.  I gave it another name, but maybe I didn't want them to be able so easily to go way from me in a direction I couldn't follow."<br /><br />"That's reasonable enough and almost too human," said Samuel.<br />...<br />"Well, it seemed to me that the man who could conceive this great story [Genesis 4] would know exactly what he wanted to say and there would be no confusion in his statement."<br /><br />"You say 'the man.'  Do you then not think this is a divine book written by the inky finger of God?"<br /><br />"I think the mind that could think this story was a curiously divine mind.  We have had a few such minds in China too."<br />...<br />"Any writing which has influenced the thinking and the lives of innumerable people is important.  Now, there are many millions in their sects and churches who feel the order, 'Do thou,' and throw their weight into obedience.  And there are millions more who feel predestination in 'Thou shalt.'  Nothing they may do can interfere with what will be.  But 'Thou mayest'!  Why, that makes a man great, that gives him stature with the gods, for in his weakness and his filth and his murder of his brother he still has the great choice.  He can choose his course and fight it through and win."  Lee's voice was a chant of triumph.<br /><br />Adam said, "Do you believe that, Lee?"<br /><br />"Yes, I do.  It is easy out of laziness, out of weakness, to throw oneself into the lap of deity, saying, 'I couldn't help it; the way was set.'  But think of the glory of the choice!  That makes a man a man.  A cat has no choice, a bee must make honey.  There's no godliness there. ... Confucius tells men how they shold live to have good and successful lives.  But this - this is a ladder to climb to the stars."  Lee's eyes shone.  "You can never lose that.  It cuts the feet from under weakness and cowardliness and laziness."<br /><br />...
