+++
title = "Readings from Frankl's 'Man's Search for Meaning'"
date = 2009-09-04T16:12:00Z
updated = 2011-05-01T02:18:54Z
tags = ["suicide", "Viktor E. Frankl", "meaning", "death", "dreams", "suffering", "religion", "World War II", "love", "psychology", "history", "psychoanalysis", "Holocaust"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/+RyanMcCarl"
+++

I am currently reading Viktor Frankl's <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0807014273/ref=pd_lpo_k2_dp_sr_1/189-8560150-0000706?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&amp;pf_rd_s=lpo-top-stripe-1&amp;pf_rd_r=0A2K5K4WK03NGZMZ523G&amp;pf_rd_t=201&amp;pf_rd_p=486539851&amp;pf_rd_i=0671023373">Man's Search for Meaning</a></em>.  Frankl, a psychiatrist, was imprisoned in the Nazi concentration camps, including Auschwitz, for several years.  He survived the experience and went on to develop the theory of "<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logotherapy">logotherapy</a>," a branch of psychoanalysis that focuses on human beings' "will to meaning."  The part of the book that discusses Frankl's memories of his camp experience is, like any Holocaust memoir worth its salt, extremely disturbing and difficult to read, but it ought to be read in spite of that.  Here are a few (non-graphic) excerpts from the book, which I highly recommend:<br /><br />---<br />Soon we had resumed the previous day's positions in the ditch.  The frozen ground cracked under the point of the pickaxes, and sparks flew.  The men were silent, their brains numb.  My mind still clung to the image of my wife.  A thought crossed my mind: I didn't even know if she were still alive.  I knew only one thing - which I have learned well by now: Love goes very far beyond the physical person of the beloved.  It finds its deepest meaning in his spiritual being, his inner self.  Whether or not he is actually present, whether or not he is still alive at all, ceases somehow to be of importance.<br />...<br />If there is a meaning of life at all, then there must be a meaning in suffering.  Suffering is an ineradicable part of life, even as fate and death.  Without suffering and death human life cannot be complete.  The way in which a man accepts his fate and all the suffering it entails, the way in which he takes up his cross, gives him ample opportunity - even under the most difficult circumstances - to add a deeper meaning to his life.<br />...<br />What was really needed was a fundamental change in our attitude toward life.  We had to learn ourselves and, furthermore, we had to teach the despairing men, that <em>it did not really matter what we expected from life, but rather what life expected from us.</em>  We needed to stop asking about the meaning of life, and instead to think of ourselves as those who were being questioned by life - daily and hourly.  Our answer must consist, not in talk and meditation, but in right action and right conduct.<br /><a name='more'></a>  <br />...<br />I remember two cases of would-be suicide, which bore a striking similarity to each other.  Both men had talked of their intentions to commit suicide.  Both used the typical argument - they had nothing more to expect from life.  In both cases it was a question of getting them to realize that life was still expecting something from them; something in the future was expected of them.  We found, in fact, that for the one it was his child whom he adored and who was waiting for him in a foreign country.  For the other it was a thing, not a person.  This man was a scientist and had written a series of books which still needed to be finished.  His work could not be done by anyone else, any more than another person could ever take the place of the father in his child's affections.<br />...<br />Not only our experiences, but all we have done, whatever great thoughts we may have had, and all we have suffered, all this is not lost, though it is past; we have brought it into being.  Having been is also a kind of being, and perhaps the surest kind.<br />...<br />I asked the poor creatures who listened to me attentively in the darkness of the hut to face up to the seriousness of our position.  They must not lose hope but should keep their courage in the certainty that the hopelessness of our struggle did not detract from its dignity and its meaning.  I said that someone looks down on us in different hours - a friend, a wife, somebody alive or dead, or a God - and he would not expect us to disappoint him.  He would hope to find us suffering proudly - not miserably - knowing how to die.<br />...<br />When we spoke about attempts to give a man in camp mental courage, we said that he had to be shown something to look forward to in the future.  He had to be reminded that life still waited for him, that a human being waited for his return.  But after liberation?  There were some men who found that no one awaited them.  Woe to him who found that the person whose memory alone had given him courage in camp did not exist any more!  Woe to him who, when the day of his dreams finally came, found it so different from all he had longed for!  Perhaps he boarded a trolley, traveled out to the home which he had seen for years in his mind, and only in his mind, and pressed the bell, just as he has longed to do in thousands of dreams, only to find that the person who should open the door was not there, and would never be there again.<br /><br />Viktor E. Frankl<br />--<em>Man's Search for Meaning</em>
